The duration of this masterclass is about 3 hours.
At the age of 17, Avinash ventured into two outings. One was dropshipping and the other one was affiliate marketing. And he had taken 10 lakh rupees of loan to venture into this business and to start something that is of his. But unfortunately, he lost a lot of money in dropshipping and affiliate marketing and that amount was 10 lakh rupees.  At that particular point of time, when you don't have money, you look at your parents and you think that they're going to come to the rescue. But unfortunately, again, for Avinash's case, his dad had 30 lakh rupees of debt. Now, this debt was because his dad wanted to help one of his cousins, but the cousin's business also did not take off. The loan was taken on his dad's name. So ultimately, that 30 lakh loan became his dad's. So at the age of 17, he had 40 lakh rupees of debt and nowhere to go.  During that time, during his lowest time, he came across this magazine while he was sitting in a library and he saw the face of Kylie Jenner on Forbes magazine and he read about her story and he got to know that she is one of the youngest billionaires of the world and he read about her story of how she built her business  on a tool where we spend most of our time doing nothing and that tool was Instagram. Her whole business model was thanks to the traffic, the amount of followers that she was able to generate on her Instagram. And he thought to himself that I also run some pages on Instagram, maybe I can also start my business on Instagram.  And he started spending a lot of his time. In fact, 14 to 18 hours of his time went into understanding the platform Instagram so that he can make money and he can get rid of his 40 lakh rupees of debt.  During this time, his friends were teasing. They were saying, why are you wasting your time? This is not the place where you spend your time and energy. You should come to classes. In fact, teachers were complaining that why is he not attending the classes? Because Avinash was spending all of his nights understanding the tool and experimenting and talking to different people.  His parents were also not happy that you know, why is our son not you know studying during this particular point of time when you know Your things are not working out for you. Everybody starts complaining and everybody's against you but Avinash did not give up he Had low CGPA and his 40 lakh rupees debt was still existing on his head And and when you know, you're in this position  If you come across a mentor, things change drastically. And that's what happened with Avinash. He came across this gentleman called Pena. He's from a small country called Dominican Republic.  And he understood what Pena was doing with Instagram. So he invested in Pena's course. In fact, he spent 70,000 rupees on Pena's course, and he got to learn everything about Instagram. This happened because he was able to beg, borrow 70,000 rupees from some of his close friends and family. And this literally helped him  crack his first client Nick Peroni and that was an international client ladies and gentlemen so his journey from being a nobody student to being a student who is in the college who has cracked an international client was just insane and with no time with the help of word of mouth he was able to generate more businesses because  His concept around using Instagram pages for business was incredible. He got featured in the Times of India as a 19-year-old boy making 80 lakh rupees in six months through Instagram. His news was everywhere. In fact, during our college time, even I saw this news and I was very happy.  And today he's got rid of the debt, he's got rid of the 40 lakh rupees that was on his head and on his parents' head as well. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome Avinash, the guy who turned adversity into opportunity and is here today as one of the leading mentors  in the AI world of our generation. We are very, very happy to have you, Avinash. I believe people are supremely excited to have you. Over to you, and I hope that you have a fantastic session with everybody. It's a very, very huge gathering here today.  amazing amazing thanks guys thanks thanks for showing up you guys are almost 1800 right now which is almost equal to six or five pbr uh you know theaters which is huge and the way Vishnu introduced me made me like almost feel like a celebrity or a mini influencer and stuff so thanks Vishnu for just introducing me uh like this and guys thanks you thanks to you for showing up  Firstly, before going ahead, I would like to know where are you guys joining from. Type in your city, not state, not country. Type in the city that you're joining this session from. Type it in the chat box. If you are London, Bangalore, Vishakhapatnam, Kalyani, Hyderabad, Chennai, Mumbai, Kenya, Bengaluru, Burma,  Anantapur, Hyderabad, Guntur, Bangalore, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Mysore, Hyderabad, Kanyakumari, Lahore, Jodhpur, London, Manchester, Canada, Vizag, Mumbai, Canada, USA, USA, USA, which part of USA you guys from? Just type it in the San Francisco, amazing, Tirupati, Patna, Atlanta, Vizag. Wow, you guys are amazing. So guys,  How many of you believe you are at the right place at the right time to learn the right skill right now? Type in the word RRR. If you believe being at the right place, right time with the right people, at least once in lifetime could change the trajectory of your life. If you believe in this statement, type in the word RRR in the chat box. Type in the word RRR in the chat box.  perfect perfect lot of people are saying RRR guys you know it's a Saturday evening or morning depending upon where are you joining from you choose to upskill yourself  on our AI technology, which is just amazing. Thank you for making up. I'm super grateful to host a session to almost 1900 people or 1800 people right now from almost 35 countries, 35 countries. That's amazing from Europe, Asia, USA, Canada, Africa, you know, these are the five continents that we have people from.  Thanks for making it happen. And now, just like the movie RRR, I don't know how many of you know the movie RRR. It's a Telugu Indian blockbuster. If you want this to be a blockbuster experience, type in the word BB in the chat box. Type in the word BB in the chat box.  Perfect. Perfect. I have with me Kundan. Kundan will be helping you out throughout the session to answer all your questions, but just give him 5 to 10 minutes after asking your question without spamming so that all your questions will be answered. Kundan is the panelist that will be added in couple of minutes. So all your questions related to anything could go to the Q&A or questions section and anything that is operational come to chat box.  Anything that is engaging, you know engaging and a message or something that I want you to type like yes City all that should go to the chat box clear type in the word clear in the chat box guys type in the word clear in the chat box. Perfect. Perfect Kunal will be joining us in maybe couple of minutes. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect.  So now, if you consider yourself to be the beginner in terms of AI and all, it's type in the word B in the chat box, that means you spent almost no time in the last few months with ChatGPT, like hardly 10 hours a week. If you spend more than 10 hours of your time every single week on ChatGPT,  and consider yourself as an advanced attribute user type in the word a according to the people's a or B's. I'll just open the right presentation and cover everything from basics to advance. If we have a lot of beginners and if we have a lot of advanced people, I'll just you know, go a lot of basics. Perfect. Perfect. Amazing guys amazing. So what I'll do is I'll just open the right presentation in here.  of it guys I'll open the presentation. How many of you could see my screen where I said Avinash Mata and me and hear me perfectly type in the word yes in the chat box firstly welcome to freedom with AI masterclass next three hours of your life is going to be  amazing. For lack of better words, it's going to be something that you would not expect. Anyways, let me introduce myself a bit. I am Avinash Madha. I started this whole journey of me coming into digital marketing or entrepreneurial journey at the age of 17-18 when I am 20.  in the year 2018 and in the last two years we managed clients budgets of 120 crores and we used AI extensively in our marketing campaigns as a business owner as a digital marketing agency owner. We use AI left right center day in and day out. So that's the reason why you could listen to me about AI and get a lot of knowledge about AI in the next three four years.  Because we are using AI, our clients in the last two years at the same time when we spend like almost 120 crores, they made the revenue of 340 crores. 340 crores for the people who might not know it is upwards of 40-50 million dollars in clients trackable revenue through our marketing ads.  One of our biggest clients is into blockchain technology. When they came in, they're valued at 20 to 40, 50 million dollars at max. Now, after seven, eight months after joining us in 2022, they raised 100 million dollars at 1.5 billion dollars in valuation. And we did entire end-to-end marketing for them in almost every social media platform that we could imagine.  And the moment this was all going on at age of 19. I was featured in India's one of the top publications both in print magazine and in a distilled one for making 80 lakh rupees in six months, which is hundred K dollars in six months as a 19 year old dropout. I dropped out immediately after getting into Times of India and I gave a Joe stock which happened to be the top five  5th most watched Joe Stock of all time in the language of Telugu. For the people who don't know Joe Stock, it is like TED, but for India.  So you might be thinking Avinash, you are amazing. I can understand but why in the world I should listen to you when it comes to AI? Are you like the core data scientist and stuff like that? No, I'm not the core data scientist and stuff, but I use AI very extensively for my businesses for the last couple of years and we are making upwards of 25 lakh rupees per month or $30,000 rupees $30,000  per month in revenue consistently for the last two to three, two, two and a half years right now. So that is the reason why, and I'm talking only about my AI businesses. There are businesses that I do which are not related to AI, but related to AI, we make $30,000 per month. I'm sorry, we have lot of India and USA and UK crowd. For me, I have to convert almost every single number into both so that everyone will have contextually right thing.  So now honestly guys every single one of you could safeguard your career. You will have a plan you will have a roadmap to safeguard your career by end of this masterclass. I could assure you that there is no way that you can't safeguard your career. If you complete this masterclass and get yourself certified.  On top of safeguarding your career, you could also potentially 3x your income using AI in the next 12 months, if you have a right mindset. The reason I believe mindset is more important than skill set and tool citizen is because, you know, you see any richest billionaire in the world, they are billionaires, millionaires and successful because of their mindset, but not because of the skill set. Bill Gates is a billionaire and one of the richest person because of his  Mindset. Elon Musk went on to do things that humanly not possible is because of his mindset, not skill set, not tool set. There are, I'm sure Sundar Pichai is not the best coder in the whole company Google, but still he is the CEO because he have a right mindset of a leader. So now how many of you believe mindset is more important than skill set? Type in the word mindset in the chat box if you completely agree with me. Perfect.  Perfect guys amazing. Thank you. Cool. So if you stay till the very end, you will get 15,000 rupees or $200 worth of bonuses including expert certificate in  you know AI and ChatGPT once you complete will give you a Google phone. We have to fill it and the moment you fill it in the next two to three working days. You will get your certificate to your email on top of it will give you playbooks. This playbooks will be amazing use cases.  for students working professionals could be any working professional any executive professional or if you are someone who are into business or self-employed this playbooks will be the world of use cases for you. And now how many of you are here for this bonuses type in the word $200 in the chat box or 15,000 rupees in the chat box. If you are here for all this bonuses upon completion of this master class.  We are literally incentivizing you a lot more just to complete this masterclass because completion is more important than start starting. How many of you believe that completing is more important than starting? How many of you believe that type in the word? Yes in the chat box. Amazing. Amazing. Great guys. Great. Cool. Perfect. Perfect.  Now, you are just one year away with AI. The money you want, the marriage you want, the family you want is directly going to be determined by AI in just 12 months. You might be thinking, Avinash, what in the world are you even doing by comparing my family, my life with AI? I completely understand and empathize with you, but let me  throw you a harsh reality of the world that is happening right now. If you see right now in the world, there is so much going on. Politically, there are almost three set of countries, which means six countries are actually fighting war between themselves, including Israel, Iran, Palestine, you know, a lot more Russia, Ukraine, all that.  Politically, we're at the worst state after World War 2 right now. In like last 100 years approximately, this has been one of the worst political situations right now. This could lead to a recession or a potential depression that could create a lot of job loss. Option number one. Option number two, the situation number two, here right now is  Now, economically, UK is in preposition officially. US has more debt than the history of that particular country, United States of America. It never had that much of debt in the history. But right now, it has.  Almost all the European countries are facing a lot of economic crisis including non-European countries like China. China, a lot of economic slowdown because all the companies are going away from China and starting their factories in other Asian countries like India and other countries.  On top of this, there is this thing called AI automation recently, which is also causing job losses. Like 40,000 people lost their job in the last few days because of AI automation from all the big countries like Paytm, Google, Meta, Microsoft and a lot more.  right so when all this is happening there is a potential possibility of decision and a very huge possibility of a layoff when decision happens and all this is happening if some at least one out of these three situations prevail to be true  You know what happens? Companies will have every single reason to lay off employees for multiple reasons. When they are replacing teams of 100 with 20, you know what will happen? You know who will survive? Someone who could do more work in less time by being more productive by using AI could be surviving in the company than anyone else.  a python developer with two years experience plus lot of AI usage in his or her workflow is going to be more valued with 20 years python experience a developer but who doesn't use AI in his workflow at any cost who will be valued more number one or number two type in the type in one or two in the chat box type in the  or two in the chat box. Lot of people are saying one absolutely true. Python developer or any white-collar jobs AI is making experience-redundant because you know, anyone with AI could do a lot especially in the next six months when ChatGPT-5 comes in when Devon comes in maybe not Devon but auto GPT comes in or you know, GitHub copilot workspace comes in  These are like apps that could potentially like do 10x more work than an average developer. That is what we're talking about. Now you see me don't you think AI will be an armor when it comes to this situation type in the word? Yes, if you agree hundred person with me that the statement that is flashing on screen right now. Is it true or false type in the word? Yes or no in the chat box.  You know, that is a sad reality guys. AI could be your armor. The world is not economically or politically in the worst state top economists in the world are predicting. In fact depression the person who predicted recession in 2018 just few months before actual decision. He's not predicting depression. Hopefully will not reach there. But then there is a possibility of even a depression in next few months in USA. And if that happens in USA whole  world will see the repercussions in some sort or form and UK and Japan have been into recession officially and USA now has 85% chance of a decision in 2024 which is the highest probability since the greatest financial crisis according to economist David Rosenberg.  You see everything is aligning guys, everything is saying the same thing. A potential decision could create layers, a potential layers could just replace everyone with zero AI expertise or most of the people with zero AI expertise. How many of you agree with me? Type in the word yes in the chat box.  Perfect. Cool. So now, now that the context of why AI is important, let's go understand what is AI. See, AI is a software or an algorithm that thinks like humans by mimicking human brain. Perfect. Write things down guys. Writing is very important. How many of you are writing this? Type in the word I in the chat box if you're writing it. Perfect. Perfect. AI  is a algorithm or a software that thinks like humans by mimicking human brain that is what AI is. Now we humans invented AI so that AI could do lot of tasks that we don't enjoy which are like redundant, uncreative, boring tasks.  But the irony of the entire century is AI is not only doing those boring and uncreative tasks, but it is also doing creative tasks just like humans. In fact better than 80% of humans right now. I'm not talking about the future. AI is doing much creative tasks that 80% of humans will not be able to do right now. How many of you agree with me type in the word? Yes in the chat box. Yes.  Perfect. Perfect. See it. We invented that for something else. It is doing that something else with everything else. That is what we're talking about. It is creating logos, editing videos, creating designs, creating PPTs, creating, you know, videos of, you know, stock footages from scratch, Sora.ai, a lot more. We'll show and we'll talk about a lot of AI tools. Just be tuned.  Now, now that we understood what is AI and how, you know, you know, it was it basically works. Now, let's understand how it works in in-depth manner. Right. So now.  For every, you know, AI app, they need to have a foundation model. What is foundation model? It's a piece of code and math in it that acts like a brain for any AI app. It's a machine learning code to be very specific. To this foundation model, we have to train this with a lot of data. That data could be in any of the format that we mentioned here, like text, images, speech, structure, data, 3D signals.  So once this data goes into a foundation model that thinks like humans by mimicking human brain, this human brain will be understanding by figuring out patterns, all that. So once it gets all the pattern observations done, it will be able to do all the tasks that we potentially do. It could include question answering, sentimental analysis, information extraction, image captioning, object recognization, and instruction following. This is how AI works.  Type in the word. Yes in the chat box. If you're learning something new, is it something new that you're learning type in the word? Yes in the chat box. You might be thinking.  Avinash, I'm a business owner. Why are you teaching this technical part to me? Trust me by end of this masterclass, you will understand why I am teaching everything to you because as a business owner, you also need to understand how the back end of AI works to be the good front-end user of ChatGPT or any other AI app. This is the reason why I am saying everything little more in-depth so that  you will have the better context of using this AI tools. Perfect. If you are a business owner type in the word BO in the chat box, type in the word BO in the chat box. Amazing Sheikh, Nathiamullah Sheikh CCS, Prashant Kumar, BO Sneha, Prashant Kumar, Bunny, Trivikram, Kanchapo, Sheikh Asiyallah, Prashant Kumar. Perfect. Perfect. Great. Let's go ahead. Let's go ahead. Now, why you should care about this whole AI thing.  7 out of top 10 most valued companies in the world are spending all their money energy into one technology which is AI which never happened in the history of humanity that 7 or 6 or 5 companies even investing everything they have into just one technology at one point of time. It never happened with internet revolution, computer revolution, mobile revolution. There are many companies working with  Many you know different areas, but right now every company know that AI is the most important thing that they could invest. When their R&D budgets of one single company is more than everyone  presents here, all our net worth combined would be less than their R&D budgets. They are spending their money in AI. When big money spends and does something, average money and small money like us could just barely, you know, should understand what's going on. You know, how many of you agree that big money knows something that small money don't know? Type in the word yes in the chat box if you agree with me.  Perfect. Perfect. Thanks guys, including Apple. I didn't mention Apple here, but even Apple is going all in on AI. So let's go next. So one of the most crucial statements in the last five years was said by Sundar Pichai. It changes the way I thought about AI. He says, AI's bigger paradigm shift than electricity. The very technology that changed everything for humanity, which is electricity,  Everything we do including the water we are drinking is because of electricity. And this person, the most respected CEO of the world right now comes out and says AI is actually bigger paradigm shift than electricity. Think about it for a second.  You are investing on a technology that will not just be a soul technology, but a technology that will impact billions of other technological Innovations and experts says AI could be the last important inventions of humanity. Yep. Processing make sense type in the word Ms in the chat box makes sense Ms in the chat box. If this totally makes sense to you.  Am I making sense? Yes, or I'm talking BS at the word MS or BS in the chat box. We'd love to see your opinions. Thanks a lot. Yes. Thank you. It's not now that we understood AI. Let's go understand. What is ChatGPT? So ChatGPT, you know. Every important mobile app that we are using including YouTube, they talk Instagram all the recommendations. Work because of AI.  But when you are when these guys are building their AI algorithms, they use data of the users of their own apps like Google will use their own users data Facebook their own users data all that. All right, but what ChatGPT thought is he if he has super powerful because of the date of one single app users data, how powerful AI could get if we could crawl entire World Wide Web  and train it to a algorithm that thinks like humans by mimicking human brain. This is what they thought and literally crawled every single web page that could legally be crawled  and they trained with an AI algorithm or a machine learning algorithm and that is a reality that we are seeing which is ChatGPT. ChatGPT read every single web page on the internet literally. The better questions that you ask to ChatGPT, the better crawling of information happens and the presentation happens to you. It's all about the way you talk to ChatGPT, the way the techniques that you use while talking to ChatGPT.  How many of you understood what you type in the word? Yes in the chat box. If you want a one-liner definition ChatGPT is a large language model that has been trying every single web page on World Wide Web to be able to answer every and almost every single question that humans have it is a large language model that has been trying with every single web page on the internet.  to just answer every single questions that we humans would have potentially in the next one to two years. It is almost answering everything but in the next one to two years, you can't just know what ChatGPT cannot do, cannot answer like that will be the situation when ChatGPT 5, 5.5 and 6 comes in to the world. So that is how ChatGPT works guys. That is what ChatGPT is. Now let's understand how ChatGPT works. Remember  This is the most important slide of this entire 3 hours masterclass. Please pay utmost focus despite you being a student, working professional, non-IT, IT, it could be anyone or a business owner. This is very important to understand. It is like a summary of entire knowledge that we had so that we could go forward.  with a great context perfect type in the word ready in the chat box. If you're ready and excited to learn this particular slide, which is how ChatGPT works. Amazing. Let's go. You see open AI the company that owns the you know ChatGPT. He has an access to supercomputer.  In that supercomputer, they run something called Transformers. Irony again here is Transformers was invented by Google and used in a best way by ChatGPT. So Transformers, they run this whole technology called Transformers. It is open source model, if I'm not wrong, that's the reason ChatGPT is able to use it. So now, so they run something called Transformers as a technology. So before we understand what is Transformers,  you know to this transformers they crawl entire World Wide Web right every single web page and process the data in a such a way that transformers would understand with zero questions asked the whole journey or the whole soul rethink that transformers needs to understand is  every single webpage on the internet will be crawled and sent to transformers it needs to observe things it needs to observe trillions of things and conclude billions of things from all the experiment stations and observations that they do during the process of from input embedding to output probabilities during this whole process all it does is  figuring out what humans talk, how humans talk and every data that is potentially available. That's what cold transformers do. How? Let me give you how humans invented this technology. Very simple. Transformers is a technology or an algorithm or a software that just doesn't mimic human brain on a surface level but in a deep level by mimicking human neural network.  Right? What are human neural networks? Simple. See, inside your brain, it's nothing but flushless neurons. Your brain is nothing but a bunch of neural networks. That's it. Every decision that you take  from drinking water when you're thirsty to slapping someone when you're angry is done by neurons in your brain. The more neurons you are able to connect in your brain, the more mature that you get. When you're a kid, it doesn't make sense a lot of time because less neurons being connected. But the more training the parents give to that kid, that kid will activate those neurons and become matured. In a similar way,  transformers use that neural network technology to be able to do things like actual humans. So they thought hey, you know, AI is great as doing all this by just mimicking human brain, but how about actually mimicking human neural network this time and they thought it the build transformers and you know the history using this transformers it figured out  billions of parameters by observing trillions of things about humans from all over the internet by this company called OpenAI. So once this transformers is done, we will not discuss every single step in the transformers because that will take 3 hours of your time which could be boring for 99000 other people. Right?  So that's what the Transformers does next step is once this Transformers understand everything it goes into Alpha stage Alpha stage is where they almost have it, but they need to trust test if things are working right or wrong. This is where all your a lot of exams happen. They'll test.  alpha stick product of ChatGPT  left right center by asking the most stressful questions that they could ask. If it passes the test and criteria it goes to next stage which is beta stage. Beta stage is where public will get the hold of ChatGPT and the next stage which is beta stage is GPT 3. GPT stands for generative  pre-trained transformers. The reason which is generative is they use something called generative AI as a technology inside transformers. That's why they kept the word generative and P stands for pre-trained because the transformers is pre-trained and T stands for transformers.  You know pretty obvious generated pre-trained transformers 3 stands for the third version of it. They did this whole thing for third time. That's why it's 3 but right now it's 4.5. They did it almost for 4 times plus mini cycle, which is 4.5 turbo that we are having right now, which is the latest version of ChatGPT. Then from the people's feedback from the beta stage, it goes to the next stage, which is instructivity.  Instruct GPT is a step where they take all the feedback and train the GPT much much further by giving communication skills and real-life skills in an in-depth manner. That is how chat GPT is born. Type in the word yes if you would understand if you understood at least 25% of what we discussed on this slide. Type in the word yes in the chat box. For the few people who might be typing in the word no,  I'll quickly summarize this in under a minute. ChatGPT has an access to a supercomputer and this supercomputer runs something called Transformers. Transformers is a technology that thinks like human by mimicking human neural network, right? Mimicking human neural network is almost like an artificial brain. So to this artificial brain or Transformers, they dump in large amount of data, trillions of things.  So it's RGPD needs to understand all the things in the string of things and need to conclude billion things while there is no questions asked. It just need to understand the patterns just like in a baby said till 0 to 4 like moms and dads rule ask a lot of questions. It just a lot of observation observing happens to the kid and once kid reaches the age of 8 9 parents starts asking questions. Why what how all that stuff.  So so no questions asked during this process of training. Once it gets to conclude all these observations, it goes to Alpha stage and it needs to be a very tough exam. If it clears the criteria, it goes to beta stage, which is public beta review. So once they get all the feedback, it goes to communication skills and real life skills training under instructivity step. Once it clears that, that is where we have ChatGPT twins.  How is it? Are you guys learning something new? Yes, type in the word yes in the chat box if you're learning something amazing and something new. And the reason I am not able to speak in the word Telugu, Hindi or any other regional language because we have people from 35 countries. I'm sorry for that. Thank you. Perfect. Type in the word yes in the chat box guys. Type in the word yes in the chat box.  Perfect. Perfect. Ayesha CCS, Saiteja CCS, Bittu CCS, Sanjeev, Manikonda, Nagarjuna, Aishwarya, Uday, Tirumalesh, Abhiram. Perfect. Rahul. Perfect. Perfect. Let's go. Let's go, guys. Let's go. So now, why you should care about ChatGPT? Pretty simple. Verbal IQ of ChatGPT is 155. Can anyone in the audience  Guess the verbal IQ of this particular person who is Einstein. Tap in the word. Akshit got it right.  There were a lot of people predicted it like Ali says exact answer. Yes one Sneha Balakrishna Mayank Dixita Syed. A lot of people already know this answer. I guess then perfect. The answer is 160. Verbal IQ of Einstein is 160 and ChatGPT is 155. That means we almost have  Einstein as assistant. We have an assistant as smart as Einstein that is available to us 24 by 7, 365 days through our mobile phones, through ChatGPT app or absolutely for free or maybe you should pay $20 a month if you need some advanced stuff. Understand that? You right now has Einstein as your assistant  What does that mean, guys? If everyone in the world has an assistant as smart as Einstein, what would happen to the world? Type in your answers here. What do you think? Kiran says disruption. Absolutely. Karthik says destruction. Large-scale development. Sangeeta says, oh my God. Prashant Kumar says gone.  Banish says revolution, amazing, miraculous, world is becoming artificial, yes, artificially more intelligent, gone, genius, revolution, collapse, transformation, kaboom, I don't know the meaning of the word, very knowledgeable, rumbling, improvement, phenomenal, disaster, life changer, blast, world will change, lol, jobs reduction, absolutely correct.  Bhoomika is absolutely right. While in the long term, we might have abundance of health, wealth, knowledge and happiness, but in the short term,  Jobs will be lost. Let me explain you why very simple. You see ChatGPT or AI tools has already made developers 2 to 3x faster all the developers out there in the world and right now in this room. Do you agree the ChatGPT and AI has made your life at least two times productive type in the word. Yes in the chat box, right in next two more years.  the word the developer will be 10 times more productive. That means if a average developer is 10 times more productive. 100 member job will be done by 10 members tab in the word. Yes, if you agree. If 10x productive productivity happens for an average developer, you would do the 10 members to the job of 100 members. So now when this happens when 10 members do the job of 100 members,  Why would a company need 100 members to do the same task? They might need 20 to have the managers on top of the line, you know, management. So, 100 member job is now being done by 20 members. This means the other 80 members who are not productive, don't have expertise could be in danger.  And for companies right now, they have two opportunities now to get rid of this 80% of the people part ways with them or go increase their marketing budgets and fulfill more projects as a service technical service company like TCS Infosys.  But you see as a 40 50 60 billion dollar companies 10xing their marketing budgets and getting more people on board takes three years and during again those three years AI will become more productive and become 10x more powerful that again this 20 members job 20 members will be doing those 10x more projects also. You see this is the world that we are going in.  So no matter what 80% of job relevancy that we have right now for developers or in fact any white-collar jobs.  could be changed it starts from 50 percent and could go all the way around 80 percent depending upon the area that you are in just for this reason how many of you agree with me type in the word yes and this is the reason why I say a short-term job disruption is bound to happen while in the long term everything is good and this short-term disruptions  is very obvious when internet came in people lost jobs when computers came in people lost jobs when mobile phones came in people lost jobs when youtube came in a lot of people lost jobs when camera or drones came in people's lost job every time a technological revolution happens some jobs will be lost but because of ai right now it could be a hugely you know inevitable thing perfect so this is the reason why short-term job loss and long-term all good  You have to prepare for it. Now what ChatGPT could do ChatGPT could do amazing coding. It's almost good. It's it makes an average order two times more productive. But the thing which are quarters in the in the world right now is can I give you a little harsh reality about the world of quarters again type in the word? Yes in the chat box type in the word. Yes in the chat box.  ChatGPT increases productivity of an average developer. I'm not talking about every developer an average developer. If you take an average, it makes an average developer on average two times more productive, right? So now. See. World of coders, you know, or non-coders, IT professionals to be very specific.  You know, 80% of IT professionals are basic. The top 20% are the decision makers. This could be your product managers, senior product managers, your general managers, or it could be your CTOs, CEOs. These are the very people in any company that takes decisions  give you standard operating procedures give you text at everything and gives all the instructions that you need and 80% of the people need to follow this all the interrupts instructions like a proper like instruction follower. So in this 21st, that's it. They just use this instructions plus a little bit of knowledge. They have using Kaggle stack overflow Google ChatGPT. They just complete the projects like that.  Little bit of creativity is needed but not a lot. How many of you agree with the statement right now type in the word? Yes in the chat box type in the word. Yes are 80% out of professionals are basic this 20% take all the decisions 80% follow the instructions. Now, if you see Average IQ of human is 120 right chat GPT's IQ is 155.  That means ChatGPT don't even need to be extra smart to replace lot of this average people ChatGPT just needs to be little better than this average people. It just needs to be above average to replace majority of this it professionals. How many of you agree tab in the word? Yes in the chat box. If you agree ChatGPT just needs to be above average to replace majority of this it professionals who are average.  Yes. And that is not just true with IT. It is true with video editing. It is already being done with content writing for a long time for you name any white-collar industry 40 to 80 percent of the jobs will have no relevance in the next two to three years because of this one reason because AI is becoming much much smarter in fact better than humans and in two to three years  AI could be more smarter than every smartest human combined.  And you might be thinking Avinash, why in the world are you hyping up like this? Like you are hyping as if Prashant Neel hypes his heroes. No guys, I'm not hyping up. It is reality. World's biggest billionaires, Sam Altman, Elon Musk and all the biggest and richest people in the world agree with this. Why in the world a richest man in the world comes out and says AI is more dangerous than nukes and you have to pause AI development for six months?  And he is pro-business and pro-development. And this guy comes out and says, hey, stop everything about AI for six months. We have to, you know, go with caution. It's something very dangerous. I'm not hyping up. I'm not, you know, doing all that things. It is experts already doing it. I am just being a facilitator, facilitating things to you. Perfect, guys. Everyone agrees?  Type in the word. Yes, if you agree that 80% of white-collar jobs are under risk because of AI. Type the word yes in the chat box and you can absolutely say no guys. If you don't agree with me at any point of time, I more than I would be more than happy to disagree with you. That's okay. Perfect. Thank you guys. Thanks a lot.  So now let's go a little quicker. ChatGPT can write books both fiction and nonfiction. ChatGPT could summarize complex articles, complex books in simple words in like very few lines to make you understandable.  ChatGPT can write great content. ChatGPT ChatGPT could be your personal tutor one-on-one teaching anything from basic communication to very advanced philosophy. You could be learning all those stuff under, you know, ChatGPT as your personal tutor.  ChatGPT could do all your HR activities ChatGPT could do all the search engine, you know stuff whatever you could search on search engine ChatGPT will be able to do all that you could do all that internally and get answers faster and more productive all that. Now, let's spend 15 to 20 minutes of time by watching 15 videos in the next 20 minutes and understand if ChatGPT alone is this powerful. How about the whole AI?  Can we do that type in the word? Yes, if you're excited to watch this 15 small small one-minute videos to change your perspective. About AI type in the word. Yes in the chat box. Perfect. Perfect guys. Perfect.  Okay, cool. And is Kundan answering all of your questions? Are you satisfied that your answers are getting perfectly answered? Type in the word Kundan in the chat box if you're receiving, you know, okay. Type in the word Kundan in the chat box. For all the basic questions, he might not be able to answer like hi and all, but you know, a lot of questions which are like good, he's answering. Perfect, perfect.  Kundan k-u-n-d-a-n perfect perfect cool guys amazing Kundan speed up a lot of people needs lot of answers it seems like it but yeah let's go what current AI could do text to image let's watch this video and understand how you're entering a text into a AI tool and getting an amazing image out  No audio. Intentionally there is no music or audio. No Kundan is not a chat bot guys. Don't worry. You see.  this lady that you're seeing is 100% AI generated. Someone used mid-journey to generate a small kid and aged that kid till 70 years using the same mid-journey. The tool here they used is mid-journey and the best part here is  just see the realness here the jewelry the skin you know even the bindi and then the nose pin if you see at one point of time he even had a nose pin but then got rid of nose pin in the next ages uh i don't know uh you know the sari the jewelry the wrinkles the white hair in here you know the eyes like  Isn't this amazing? What is the first word that you got into your brain when you realize that this is really AI generated? Type in the word, the first word that you got inside your brain. Someone says, wow, amazing, mind-blowing, damn, whoa, oh my God, unbelievable. Wow, wow, sick, fabulous. I'm learning more vocabulary right now. Great. So this is how it works, guys. So now, how many months do you think an average artist  a digital artist would need to draw something like this. Tabular word, month, how many months? 1, 2, 3, how many months do you think? 2 weeks, 4 months, 2 months, 1 month, 12 months. I would at least say it takes around 3 weeks to draw 7-18 images of same lady, aging and stuff like that. And this is done by 15 minutes in mid-journey right now.  It is not 10x more faster, not 100, it is 1000x faster than human right now and almost able to generate indistinguishably good images. Yes, and if AI could do this much creative stuff like drawing an image of a lady which is so realistic.  It could easily do logos PPTs websites, which are very or any complex UI UX screen as a visual designer could be done right now. It is being done. I'm not talking about the future. If you are a visual designer pay very close attention for the next 15-20 minutes. This is just going to blow your mind off. Like if you are a visual designer not using AI  under trouble under attack if you are a visual designer type in the word V D VD stands for visual designer type in the VD and if you're mind-blown by this if you are a visual designer and mind-blown by this type in the word VD VD is not Vijaya Deva Konda. It's VJ. Sorry, you know visual designer. Yep, perfect Cool let's go So text to music  How many of you know this guy? The guy who is flashing on screen type in the word yes in the chat box. Yes, perfect.  Yeah, if you talking to me, baby, then you talking to me nice. She's being a doll, she's on the night. Talking to hoes, I'm waiting for light. I got a pussy for guessing my eyes. She's trying to fuck, but I ain't into them nights. I don't want to be on here and they right. All you dames, I know what you like. Bitch, I'm a doll, so I don't bite. Flipping that shit with all of my might. I got a couple of demons I fight. Making these plans, I'm back on the site. All of my diamonds, they black or they white. She want to know me, I'm keeping it light. I couldn't afford to have that in my life.  i keep walking i'm back on my bike keeping it beat i'm pushing this pipe each other day man i'm running the lights i can't believe that she fit in them tights buying it once buying it twice swiping this car don't ask for the price sexy and rare she said i'm uptight i got a check but i'm ironing my thighs feeding her pussy like that's your device baby you know i'm not good at advice  Why would I go if I don't get advice? Takin' these chances, rollin' the dice. Started from nothin', don't hit any ice. All because what I been spittin' on these bikes. Need a few things inside of my Sprite. Better let her see if you want my advice. Thought I could trust you all my life. Can't even trust you with a knife. It's all to me, baby, it's all to me, nice. It's all to me, baby, it's all to me, feelin' the hate. Funny how love can turn you away. Funny how love can turn you away. Funny how love can turn into hate. Funny how love  Guys, this is completely AI generated. Lyrics, music,  the the vocals of the exact singer Drake everything is AI generated. What was the first word that you got in front in your mind when you heard this? I want first word to be typed out in the chat box right now. And they use different tools like chat GPT uber duck and Suno AI. These are the few music generation here tools for all the musicians are there if you are a musician, I'm sorry, if you are a musician type in the word music in the chat box.  Amazing. Amazing. Sneha is a musician. Sanjana is a musician. Wow. We have a lot of musicians also. And now, what will this do to our musicians? You know, the music directors. Do you think it will make job of music directors 10x easy?  a director could sit with AI in the future and generate their own songs with the lyrics that a lyricist would give or maybe a Telugu version of chat jeopardy would give or you know any version of chat jeopardy would give how many of you think that is a very high possibility type in the word possible in the chat box if there is a possibility amazing now  How many of you felt this is very real? Type in the word real in the chat box if you feel this is actually good and real. Perfect. And that's what we're talking about. AI is doing visual design and AI is doing music. Let's see what else AI could do. Presentations. Type in the word yes in the chat box if you make at least one presentation a month in your office or in your business or as a student.  What's this?  I'm going to go ahead and close out the meeting.  That's gamma.app for you.  No matter how much complex presentation that you do in office, you could literally take note of all the requirements that you have in your presentation from your brain to a Google Doc. Copy that requirement, paste it in the ChatGPT and ask it to prepare content for your presentation worth 10 slides. Copy it.  paste it in this and your presentation is done in under five minutes. How many hours a person like you and me who isn't not into design would need to do a presentation like this. How many hours type in number of hours 12 man hours 40 man hours 2 hours 4 hours 3 hours 48 hours something like that.  For a non-designer especially. Yes, it takes at least a minimum of five hours. So now you see Five hours job is done being done in five minutes. In fact better. I would never make a presentation this good in my life as a non-designer. We all agree that can you make this kind of a presentation like this professional in it five to six hours.  Yes or no? Very difficult, right? Maybe if you are very good at presentations, yeah. So this is taking away jobs of all those people who just do presentations for their life. It makes their job 10 to 20x easier. That makes 80% less requirement in jobs. Is it? Yes? Cool.  This is what we're talking about gamma. It's very easy guys. Like you literally write something what you need. It will make your presentation in a minute or two. That's how easy it is. And let's now see movies. We are all interested in movies, right? We all watch a movie a month at least. Let's now see how this AI is impacting the world of movies. This is  text to video, entering text and getting video in 2023, one year back.  I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.  This is text to video right now. What is the first word that you got in your mind?  for watching this video type it in the chat box and the tool name is Sora.ai by open AI like you see the clarity guys like you know that no wonder why movies like Hanuman in Telugu use lot of AI this one shot would take if you get a real fox forget about real fox even in the green screen it takes a lot of effort to generate this  And it is now done in like a second if you explain the scene. A 20 second scene is just getting in 20 seconds actually. A 20 second scene in movie needs like 5 days, 4 days, 10 days in general. And now, click of a button. If you are a VFX artist and mind blown by this, type in the word VFX in the chat box. Filmmakers are also in the danger.  yeah the reason why the movie telugu and indian movie hanuman you know  did wonders with a budget of 40 crores instead of 100 crores is because they used AI in like most of the things I could literally sense a lot of AI generated footage including that big Hanuman you know statue on you know that particular you know the river is actually I'm sure it is AI generated I could literally sense it and with a little bit of VFX mixing happened post that  And director himself said lot of shots were actually AI generated out of mid journey and all they just added the video effect of it the storyboarding the story writing everything. That's the reason they made it super amazing, but very fast cool. Yeah, Adipush didn't use AI. Yeah. Yep, it's enough. Let's watch this.  Here I stand, standing before you, and I know that you are with me, and I know that you are with me, and I know that you are with me, and I know that you are with me, and I know that you are with me, and I know that you are with me.  Yes, how many of you think this particular TV commercial that you saw is better than 90% TV commercials that we see on a daily basis type in the word. Yes, type in the word. Yes. All they used is ChatGPT to get the script and the concept of this particular TV commercials and then they went on to run way ML exact tool to just paste that particular script.  20 minutes then done with the video with a budget of less than 40-50 dollars one man the director did it all. You see that reason why I am hyping up AI a lot. This would require a 5 to 6 member team 3 to 4 dogs 7 to 8 days and 10 lakhs in budget or $20,000 in budget to do this.  And this is done 10,000x faster in 20 minutes and with 10,000x cheaper with less than $50 in investment and the result people would not even know it is AI generated until someone says it to them. Even if they know AI generated the curiosity is like 5x more to see how AI is doing this amazing job already. How many of you are mind-blown? How many of your filmmakers are mind-blown? Type in the word FM filmmakers.  if you are mind blown right now. FM. Prakshita says FM. Arjun says FM. Ananya says FM. Ali says FM. Sneha, Vardhan, Harisha, Antonia. Windows 10. Amazing. Great. So AI is not generating random videos. It is also generating a perfect concept video. It is how you use AI tools matters. It's not about the AI tool itself.  You will be mind blown. Pay attention.  is for the people who didn't get the context. The first one is not in the robot. It's not a arrow about fighting like a human. No, I'm not talking about the robot here. The video that's down is a real video and in the video the top which is generated by an AI tool called wonder dynamics a human is dragged and dropped in a moving 2d scene. With a robot. Click of a button.  you could generate a like you could get one video shot with someone else and if you don't like the actor drag and drop to any other actor that you wish and the reason they had the robot here is you know, obviously, you know to be compliant and you know, they need a lot of you know structured, you know, kind of scans of a human to be able to keep a human they have robot here. They just put robot  how difficult it is for an average VFX artist to do something like this and the tool name is Wonder Dynamics. So you could literally duplicate the video with someone else like a dupe of Shah Rukh Khan of Mahesh Babu or  You know any Tom Cruise could do the video or to do the fight scene and Tom Cruise dupe will be replaced with the real Tom Cruise after the movie is done. And this generally right now takes a lot of time for a VFX artist to do but now matter of 10-15 minutes to load like 2 minutes to do actually do it and 20 minutes to render it and get it to you. That's it. This is the VFX I'm talking about. Perfect. Cool.  And last but not least, watch this.  You see guys, people with a basic VFX knowledge in the next one to two years will be able to do a graphics or VFX like Avatar or  Bahubali here in India sitting from their bedrooms and bathrooms that will be the future that we're talking about it sounds crazy but see this like this animated kind of movies need lot of budgets you know lot of you know media houses spends crores or millions of dollars and this lady did with this one tool called runway ml nine months back right now runway ml is much advanced i'm showing you the nineties behind example  and there are many other tools called kyber.ai and you know there are tools like Pika labs and Sora AI is not out but once Sora AI is out it will just eat out every single competition that it could. Now that movies is done how many of you are coders who know the repository called github type in the word github git in the chatbot if you know what is github all the coders  Let's do it type in the word get in the chat box. There is something that will just Again, blow your blow your mind off. You might be thinking avinash. Why are you not talking about us coders? You started with coding and now you're not talking about coding. This is the slide for you amazing cool watch this Yeah  Let's start with this. I think we always have to look at the unchanging between the best of the inevitable. So an inevitable is 41% of all code on GitHub right now is AI generated. Wow. To six months. ChatGPT can pass a Google level three programmer exam and it will run pretty much on a MacBook or a phone. And that's this year. This year, right now. Yeah. There are no programmers in five years. No programmers in five years.  So those of you with kids who you were having, you know, with Python lessons and so forth, maybe it's instead helping them to understand how to ask great questions or give great directions or prompts. I think we always have to look at the unchanging versus the inevitable. So an inevitable is 41% of all code on GitHub right now is AI generated. Wow. To six months.  Challenge APT can pass a Google Level 3 programmer exam and it will run pretty much on a MacBook or a PC. And that's this year? This year, right now. Yeah. There are no programmers in five years. No programmers in five years. So those of you with kids who you're having, you know, with Python lessons and so forth, maybe it's instead helping them to understand how to ask great questions or give great directions or prompts. I think we always have  Any thoughts guys? How many of you agree with this particular person? This guy is a CEO of a most respected AI company called stable diffusion and open source, you know image generation platform stable diffusion most respected. He was in space of AI. He himself would have 500,000 developers working for his own company comes out and says there are no developers in 510 years down the line. How many of you almost agree with this guy time the word? Yes in the chat box. If you agree with this guy,  Yep. See, I personally don't 100% agree with this guy, but I get what he means. Like what he is saying is, five years down the line, every developer, everyone will be a developer. Everyone will be able to create, you know, a lot of apps themselves without any coding language. So when everyone is a developer,  it becomes a rat race of who does it faster and better that's it coding knowledge will not be you know matter only thing is who does it faster and better agreed type in the word yes and now the reason why he's saying there will be no developers is because everyone is a developer when everyone is a developer no one is actually developer right like when everyone can code  like what is the designation coder mean or an IT professional mean like it loses the value that what he sees will still have dedicated developers but you know not a lot of them is what he sees which I agree but not 100% he just said it to just to make more sense of it but then not 100% but maybe 80% 70% but the direction is that  Number one number two. The reason why he says is, you know, there's this thing called GitHub GitHub is like a repository of hosting codes doing all that. 40% of the code hosted on GitHub after six months of ChatGPT release. Is done by AI just in six months a repository, which is like 10 years old with zero core, you know, a I code for like almost 8 to 10 years.  Just in six months, an entire code of all time is 40% of it is in it by AI. Imagine that.  Top corporates still don't allow AI usage in their companies, but still 40% of the coders by July of 2023 uses AI. And what will this number be? How much percentage of code in GitHub will be generated by AI in the next one year? Any guesses? Type it in the chat box. Type in the chat box. Security is just a myth guys. It's just a myth.  you know the more smarter you are the more things that you could do security data privacy we're all gone like there is no data privacy in the world of uh you know internet right now but with ai that just gets worse yeah 80 percent 85 percent 90 percent i completely agree yep so that's what imad mustaki sees so now let's watch  You might be thinking Avinash, this guy is someone who I don't know. Show me someone who is big, talks in the similar line. I'll show you, CEO of Nvidia, Jensen Huang says something to you.  I think it's taking a little bit of time, guys. I'm sorry. I want to say something and it's going to sound completely opposite of what people feel over the course of the last 10 years, 15 years. Almost everybody who sits on a stage like this would tell you it is vital that your children learn computer science. Everybody should learn how to program. And in fact, it's almost exactly the opposite. It is our job to create computing technology such that nobody has the program and that the programming language is human.  Everybody in the world is now a programmer. You now have a computer that will do what you tell it to do. This is the miracle of artificial intelligence. I want to say something and it's going to sound completely opposite of what people feel over the course of the last 10 years, 15 years. Almost everybody who sits on a stage like this would tell you it is vital that your children learn computer science. Everybody should learn how to program. And in fact, it's almost exactly the opposite. It is our job to create computing technology such that nobody has to program.  and that the programming language is human. Everybody in the world is now a programmer. You now have a computer that will do what you tell it to do. This is the miracle of artificial intelligence. I want to say something. How many of you think what he sees makes sense? Type in the word MS in the chat box.  the new programming language of the world will be their mother tongue. It could be Telugu. It could be English. It could be Hindi the programming language will soon become English and then it will become their mother tongue. How many of you agree with me type in the word MS in the chat box.  ms in the chat box. Yes in every time someone says 100% of programmers. It's not 100% guys. They say it for some other reasons, but it's 80% which is also a very risky stop and a very risky thing right and this is now being executed by github copilot. Let's watch this.  Maybe one day we'll all be able to live with just one heart. Maybe one day we'll all be able to live with just one heart. Maybe one day we'll all be able to live with just one heart. Maybe one day we'll all be able to live with just one heart. Maybe one day we'll all be able to live with just one heart. Maybe one day we'll all be able to live with just one heart. Maybe one day we'll all be able to live with just one heart. Maybe one day we'll all be able to live with just one heart.  I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.  Guys, what do you think all the developers here? What do you think of this? This is the first step of making you 10x productive type in the word. Yes, if you agree with me and this is not the first company that is trying to do all this.  github owned by microsoft is doing this auto gpt is doing this potentially devin tomorrow could do this some people say something about it but yeah could do it and chat gpt also could do this potentially in the future there are a lot of  AI tools are doing this right now trying this type in the word. Yes, if you're scared to the I don't want to use any bad word here. But if you're scared to the death like if you're almost scared and your heart is beating twice as fast after seeing with this video type in the word. Yes as a developer be very frank. Okay, if this becomes reality, will you be scared?  and this is reality that three months this will be out github copilot workspace now the next version of github copilot perfect  You see guys, that's the world we are coming to, you know, no matter what industry you are into there is something AI could do to you. Coders, QA, data analysts, data scientists, paralegals, you know, market research analyst, teachers, finance jobs, traders, graphic designers, accountants, healthcare, insurance, media, customer service agents, art, music, video editing, digital marketing, no matter who you are, there is something that AI could do to disrupt your entire industry. Are you not convinced that AI is the future?  and AI will replace so many jobs yet. It is the best vehicle to make truck loads of money. If you start your you know, your exploration right now type in the word. Yes in the chat box type in the word. Yes in the chat box. And if you never typed anything in the chat box, but being a silent spectator and want to start engaging right now type in the word mean the chat box.  Now I see a lot of people were saying miss also. That's amazing. Thank you for starting to engage with me. The reason why I asked you to engage is to make content go into your brain rather than onto your brain. Perfect.  Cool that were me if you're writing something in the chat box for the first time and continue saying yes, if you've been engaging and agree with the statement that is flashing on screen. Perfect. Amazing is amazing. Great. Let's go. I need a commitment. We're almost one and a half hour into this presentation. I need a commitment from you. I commit that as soon as I know that AI is the best way to 3x my income.  Potentially I will go all in put your hand on the heart and read it out loud go Really go Declaration let's do declaration guys. Do we do we do it? Amazing Tapping the word mean the chat box if you really you know Read it out loud. I mean the word mean the chat box if you really did it  If not, at least do it right now. At least do it right now. Type it because declarations could change you. A lot of people don't know this but then yeah declarations could change it. Perfect. Did it type in the word? Yes, if you did it for in the at least in the second go type in the word. Yes in the second go. Perfect. Perfect. Cool. Let's go. So now let's understand what is mountain geologic like  Everyone wants to know this. Am I right? Type in the word prompt in the chat box if you want to know a little bit more about prompt engineering. People say this is the skill of century. Let's see why people say that. Prompt, prompt, prompt. Perfect. It's enough. It's enough. To understand prompt engineering, we have to understand software engineering a bit. What is software engineering?  human communicating with the software in a way software understands. To get the feature for his project. That's it. You go to VS code, which is a software and talk to VS code in a language VS code understands which is Python JavaScript all that to get a feature for your app or project. So this is software development. All the software developers do you agree type in the word? Yes in the chat box this chat software development. Yes. Yes.  Perfect. Similarly, PROM engineering is about humans communicating with AI in a language AI understand, in a way AI understand to get the best out of any AI tool he or she touches. That is PROM engineering. Like you go to ChatGPT, talk to ChatGPT in a way ChatGPT understands to get the best out of ChatGPT.  This is prompt engineering to be very specific, but you might be thinking Avinash then everyone in the world is a prompt engineer. Absolutely not. Let me give you an example. If someone goes to python right and write a code to add two numbers in python. Do you really consider themselves as a developer all he or she could do is to write a code to add two numbers. That's it. Nothing more advanced. Do you consider him or her as a python developer?  Type in the word yes or no in the chat box. Absolutely not right in a similar way. If you go to ChatGPT and write a one line prompt or two line prompt in a basic way. You are not a prompt engineer. You ChatGPT user. But a professional prompt engineer have a structured prompt in a writes it in a context that AI understands writes it with a prompt engineering technique that he needs to use to get the best out of ChatGPT.  That's the difference between a ChatGPT user and a prompt engineer. Perfect makes sense type in the word ms in the chat box. Perfect. Perfect guys. So now there are certain things to prompt engineering 25% of prompt engineering is about communication skills. You might be thinking Abhinash communication skills is 100% all you need to have communication skills. Absolutely not. In fact, when I mean 25% communication skills,  I am not saying about having fancy vocabulary, great grammar and all that. No, you don't need all that. The way you structure your prompt is 25% of prompt engineering which is communication skills. Next, 50% of prompt engineering is about right way of using prompt techniques, prompting techniques. What are prompting techniques? Pretty simple.  If you go to ChatGPT and ask to write 50,000 non-fiction, 50,000 word non-fiction book or 2,000 line code, do you think ChatGPT would be able to pull off just like that? Yes or no? Very, very, very, very humanly difficult, right? It's a little difficult. But if you want to do it in a professional way, having the knowledge of chain of thought prompting technique, tree of thought prompting technique, critic thought prompting technique and there are hundreds of prompting techniques like that.  So using those prompting techniques, you could both write a 50,000 word book of ChatGPT and 2,000 line code for your app just like that inside ChatGPT. So having the knowledge of 5 to 7 prompting techniques that you could insert in your workflow in professional life is 50% of prompt engineering.  And the last but not least is 25% of prompt engineering is about having knowledge of at least four to five professional AI tools that you could use in your professional life. ChatGPT, Jupyter notebooks, mid-journey, stable diffusion, depending upon your life, your career, you need to have four to five AI tools that you could use in your career. And combination of all this makes you a prompt engineer.  Next time when someone comes and says prompt engineering is just communication skills. 25% right, but 75% we have to have prompting techniques and AI tools. Type in the word MS in the chat box if this makes sense. Type it, type it. Perfect. The more engaging you be, the more energetic I get. Yeah, cool. So now this is prompt engineering.  So, these are the front-end engineering works and this is true for almost all the use cases. You could be content writer, developer, you could be, you know, a project manager who need to brainstorm and take a lot of decisions. You are someone who is a CTO and need to finalize your tech stack and want different people's opinion. All that, you know, you could use ChatGPT in this way to get the best out of ChatGPT.  There are two things, non-technical prompt engineering and technical prompt engineering. What is non-technical prompt engineering? AI users are non-technical prompt engineers. AI builders, developers are technical prompt engineers.  non-technical prompt engineers are the ones who understand back-end of ChatGPT or AI tools a bit, which we discussed in the starting of this webinar itself. They understand back-end, but they don't code. With zero coding knowledge or reliably no coding knowledge, they use ChatGPT or AI tools in the best way that an average user can't use. Those people are non-technical prompt engineers.  And the people who are technical with a lot of Python experience, data science experience or say NLP, computer vision, all these people, people with these experiences will be building these large language models or AI tools are technical front-end engineers.  lot there are less than like say few million technical prompt engineers anyway in the world but even a technical prompt engineer who is building the back end of AI needs to know the front end usage of AI to survive in the world because you're a data scientist it's not like you can't use AI in the front end to be able to take all your decisions  IT professionals spend 75% of the time thinking and 25% doing it is 50% of the people agrees with me. They do this. Sometimes they do a lot of coding only but a lot of people 75% thinking done could be done by AI. All the brainstorming could be done by AI. 25% of coding could be done by AI. ChatGPT, Jupyter Notebooks, GitHub, Copilot, Workspace, all those tools.  So your ability as a technical prompt engineer or a technical developer to use front-end will also be needed in the future. In fact, not future right now that is non-technical prompt engineering understood tag in the word MS in the chat box. If this totally makes sense tag in the word MS. I'll also see you how is what is the future of this non-technical prompt engineers and technical prompt engineers, right? So let's talk about technical prompt engineers.  Technical prompt engineers who are data science specialists are the last people in the world of developers to lose their jobs. Like I don't know when this will happen, but they are the last people because the more AI tools happens, this people needs to train the data. AI is nothing but data and data scientists do nothing but do the data training and all that. So data scientists are needed and are the last ones to lose their jobs, which is like the best safeguarded career right now for all other people. So that's technical prompt engineering or technical prompt engineers.  with a future proof little bit not like 100 years or 50 years maybe five years. Okay. So now let's come to non-technical prompt engineers. Very simple. Imagine there are 10 content writers in the company. Companies were hiring AI managers to manage this 10 people and transform their processes and systems to be able to use AI in a better way to make this 10 people do the work of 20 people. Let me explain.  20 member teams are being replaced by 10 members and on top of this 10 members they would have normal manager and then they would have an AI manager and this AI manager would understand every system every process talks to every single member for few days and set up systems and processes in such a way that everything that they do would be highly leveraged by AI tools to make them more productive.  and that will be the job of job of AI manager just to make team productive because 20 members are now being replaced by 10 members and companies needs to use this 10 members to do 20 members job and they need one person who is a manager and now they're just cutting extra nine people and saving a lot of money and these people  The primary experience of this people, the AI manager would be non-technical prompt engineering. The secondary or any other experience, secondary experience of this particular manager would be content writing from his previous job. So, anyone could be, anyone could make their prompt engineering as their primary experience by learning prompt engineering.  and then go to any industry and become AI managers. These people are often called AI managers, AI transformation specialists, image generation experts, non-technical front-end engineers, ChatGPT experts, mid-journey experts. There are multiple fields.  for every 60 technical prompt engineering jobs we have 40 non-technical prompt engineering jobs right now in the market and the best part is 60 for 60 technical prompt engineers we 20 like 200 people are fighting against it whereas for 40 non-technical prompt engineers only 20 people are actually applying for this to at 40 non-technical prompt engineers because this non-technical prompt engineering or generative AI engineering is just  a month old it's a six to nine months old so there are not a lot of people who know this and you are now amongst the top one person two person in the world who know a lot of technical prompt engineering typing the word makes sense if it is totally making sense yes perfect enough  If you learned about AI and prompt engineering more in the last 15 minutes from this prompt engineering slides than your entire two years 2023 2022 last in 2024 type in the word. Yes in the chat box. Type in the word. Yes in the chat box. If you are learning more in this 15 minutes than last two years of your time. Perfect.  perfect not two years but my life thank you Deepika anyway so this is what prompt engineering is this is the difference non-technical prompt engineering is the way to go you'll see a lot of people want technical well non-technical prompt engineers in their workspace  Sometimes a technical person someone who's a python developer could be a non-technical prompt engineer and like lead the 10 python developers, but the more of his expertise in prompt engineering the ability to use AI tools in a better way and secondary experience of him will be python development from his previous job or her previous job. This is how it works. Perfect. Cool.  In 10 years, half of the world's jobs will be in prompt engineering. That means we have 1 billion white-collar jobs, 500 million of those 1 billion white-collar jobs will be needing prompt engineering or AI expertise in some or other way to survive their daily professional life. This is said by  Robin Lee, CEO of Baidu, a 50 billion dollar Chinese based company. And I perfectly agree with it. He says 10 years. But then I say five years, five years is more than enough, because this was said by two or three years back when AI is not a huge thing. But right now, the development is huge. Right. So in five years, we need 500 million prompt engineers or 50 crore prompt engineers  Do you now realize the value of prompt engineering because we have can anyone guess how many prompt engineers we have right now in the world non-technical type it in the chat box. Less than 1 lakh non-technical prompt engineers or 100,000 non-technical prompt engineers are there in the world 100,000 or 1 lakh to 500 million and 50 crores.  You see the gap and this gap could not be filled if the governments, corporates and universities, all three come together and try, it will not happen. They should have the war kind of mechanism. They should see that there is a war they are fighting with AI, only then this is possible.  Even then micro entrepreneurs like freedom micro companies migrate the companies like freedom with AI the founder. I'm the founder of it. Fortunately should come up a lot of it companies should come up and create this awareness about AI, you know guys the reason we what we do why why we do what we do is now we are on the mission to upskill one crore or 10 million individuals.  to create awareness on AI in the next three years. We are done with 150K or 1.5 lakh, which is 1.5% of our goal in the last 12 months. We have two more years to reach our goal to 100%. Hopefully, if you see this valuable, you sharing the same thing with all your friends and making them attend this masterclass will make us reach the goal of upscaling one crore people with AI so that, you know, out of 50 crores,  We have that one crore people, 2% of 50 crore requirement will be fulfilled by this micro IT company, Freedom AI. That's the goal. And thanks a lot, guys. Thanks for explanation. Great goal. I want to be one of them. Veda says, Lavanya, for everyone who's stepping in, all the kind messages. Thank you. For everyone who's saying all the best, congratulations. Thanks a lot, guys. Thanks a lot for everyone who's saying all these kind words in the chat box.  Great all the best. Thank you all as well loving experience all the best. I want to be one. Thank you. Congratulations. Excellent, bro. Great great vision and mission. Thanks a lot. Let's go next. So now let's dive in. So now a prompt needs to be in certain format. What is that format? This is that format. When you are writing a prompt in ChatGPT, you have to start it with the first component which is task.  What is that one thing that you want ChatGPT to do or AI to do goes to the task? How you want the task to be executed? Goes to instruction component third component is context. Why are you even asking AI to do that particular task? What is the context behind it goes to context fourth component is parameter.  What are the rules and regulations that AI needs to follow while executing that particular task goes to parameter. After all the four components is a fifth component which is optional which is input. If at all you have any more things in your brain you want to do all the brain dump  and you want to kind of give some references to that AI to execute that particular task. It could be a reference source code reference article reference video. You could give that in the input format and that's fifth component. No matter who you are a developer content writer format remains the same. We used hundreds of formats and this gave the best results all the time type in the word. Yes in the chat box. If it is making sense. Yes.  Perfect. Let's go. Task. Let me give you an example, right? And this example is for content writing because everyone could relate to it.  So that's the reason we didn't do the developer coding stuff, but the coders also will have the same task. Write a structured response acting as a world-renowned CEO like Sunder Pichai, providing five main points on how companies can survive when their financial runways come to an end. Blah, blah, blah. That is the task that we gave to AI. Instructions. Begin with a brief introduction and then dedicate a separate paragraph for each of the five main points. Each point should be supported by real-life examples, blah, blah, blah.  goes to instruction. Context, the audience are business owners and entrepreneurs facing financial challenges in need of practical and insightful advice to navigate the situations. That's the context of the article. Parameter, the response should not exceed 500 votes and should consider the provided statistics and examples, etc. Parameters.  Input drawn your knowledge of business survival strategies financial management and entrepreneurial resilience about to provide a comprehensive response keeping in mind the acting role as a CEO next in the picture. This is how a professional prompt engineer writes prompts. How many of you are seeing a prompt this big for the first time type in the word? Yes in the chat box.  and have in the world know if you already wrote a prompt like this or saw a prompt like this in the past. Yes or no perfect. And this is the example guess this is the example. So now we got a lot of theoretical knowledge. We got to know a lot more with just this knowledge. You are in the top 5% in the world that have lot of non-technical prompt engineering experience. Now, do you do you feel that you are a little more smarter than yesterday when it comes to prompt engineering type in the word? Yes in the chat box.  Perfect. Now, let's implement all the theoretical knowledge that we have learned to build a real business. Let me build you an IT company in the blockchain space, just using one or two AI tools. Would you be interested in that? Type in the word yes in the chat box if you would be interested in seeing how I could build a business in the next 15 minutes inside GPT and one more AI tool at max. Can I do that? Do I have your permission for that? Amazing.  cool perfect let me open my chat gpt and the business that we are going to build is a tech company based on blockchain and bitcoin because bitcoin is growing super fast these days it is again trending people want to make money and all that and if you want to invest in bitcoin having the knowledge in a structured way understanding how blockchain works and bitcoin works is very important agreed typing the word agreed in the  if you agree with it. Yes, understanding how this works by investing 500 rupees, 1000 rupees, 20 dollars, 30 dollars is very important. Yes, blindly investing in a coin that your friend suggested is not a good financial advice. You have to learn, research and invest your money. Perfect. So now to understand about our product, there is a thing called ICP, Ideal Customer Persona.  And this is a concept from MBA, if I'm not wrong, where, you know, we encourage ChatGPT to give our ideal customer persona. Perfect. I will just.  Just a second guys. I wrote 15 points. I don't need 15 points. I just need five points each. So now what I did is I went to ChatGPT and gave this product. I am selling a cryptocurrency and blockchain course. Please answer this questions as my ideal customer persona ICP who is suffering from the problem of not having information about crypto or blockchain. Please give me at least five bullet points of every for every point from the fourth point blah blah blah. These are the points that I'm asking about my customers.  It gave me an example name example age example self-description this ideal and basically ICP is just you doing your customer research before actually starting your business. No matter if you're starting cafe or any other business understanding your customer and the market is more important than your marketing campaigns or your product or service in itself agreed type in the word. Yes as a business owner if you agree with this, so that's the reason we're starting our business  you know with ideal customer post on our market research and customer research. The self-description of my ideal customer is I am tech savvy professional who is always eager to learn you know about emerging technologies have dabbled a bit in investing and I'm particularly curious about potential of cryptocurrency and blockchain technology to transform industries.  The primary goal of my ideal customer would be to gain a comprehensive understanding of a cryptocurrency and blockchain technology to make informed investment decision and possibility transition to a career in this field. Mechanism to achieve the goal, enter into well-structured and reputable course, regularly participate in online forums, follow industry leaders and influences, attend webinars and virtual conferences, engage in practical exercises like scaling, small trading or blockchain demo to apply the knowledge you got. So that is the mechanism.  Past feeling about the items felt disappointed, overwhelmed, frustrated, excited, anxious. Primary motivation to be at the forefront of the technology to achieve the sense of accomplishment by masking a challenging and relevant field. What are the unwilling sacrifices of my ideal customer?  You know sacrificing a large amount of time without clear and structured outcomes investing in significant money in courses over committing to a single niche primary and structured primary and secondary complaints lack of clear and stride for educational resources high volatility, you know to vast to fully understand blah blah blah. What is the ultimate fear duration of the interest past experiences reason motivating experiences common self-talk triggers for guilt sources of optimism  so much about our customer. How charge would you know all this pretty simple? It has all the data from World Wide Web. It crawled everything from the database from the prompt we gave because it's very structured and in-depth. It is not able to give us all this information that would otherwise take two to three months of your time.  Type in the word MB mind-blown in the chat box. If you are already mind-blown by the amount of research we already did about our customers. Guys, if you're from USA or any other country internationally, or if you're from India, figure out top startups that recently got it fun, recently got funded. Email them saying that I could do a deep customer research. I'll give it to you only pay me if you like.  and do this for hundreds of people and give this as $500 thousand dollars as a service just copy paste and just package it in a better way and give it to the average business owner who makes a million dollars in the venue a year. I am 100% sure 99.99% of business owners themselves in in USA or UK or any other country.  They themselves don't know what is ICP and if you give this much information about their customer, they would be loving you to the core and happily paying $500 because this market research of them or customer research of this will help in building a better product, better service and better marketing campaigns. Here is the $1000  per project idea for you. You could potentially make four to five thousand dollars per month by spending one to two hours, but just doing this type in the word ms in the chat box. If this is making sense. Ms in the chat box, please. Perfect. Perfect. Yep. Cool. So now that we almost have, you know, you know market research done. The next step for building our course is to build a curriculum, right? Every course need a curriculum.  from number one, copy and pasting it. What I'm saying is, hey, I'm building a cryptocurrency course. I need a curriculum of that with 10 topics with six topics, sorry, covering concepts from scratch to advance. So it is not creating a curriculum. Introduction to cryptocurrency and blockchain. What is cryptocurrency? History of cryptocurrency overview.  how it works, benefits, key terminologies, understanding blockchain technology, cryptocurrency mining, wallets and keys and addresses, crypto trading and investments, DeFi, NFTs, regulations and legal aspects of cryptocurrencies, cryptocurrency security,  advanced topics and emerging trends. How many of you are into crypto right now? I'm thinking ChatGPT right out of the box gave an amazing curriculum. Type in the word crypto in the chat box. If you are into crypto and think this is actually good, type in the word crypto in the chat box. Yep, you see.  We got curriculum of our course in 15 minutes. How much time would you think this would take for a general curriculum designer to do? Type in the days, type in how many days or weeks that you need. Three weeks, four weeks, absolutely. We at least need two to three, four weeks in the best case.  to do a comprehensive research over the industry talk to some users and get to a curriculum like this and ChatGPT did it in two minutes just two minutes. That's the power we are talking about. So now what's next? I have a curriculum.  Which means this are all of my video ideas. I have 60 videos. I need to record from what is cryptocurrency to overview blah blah blah. I need to record 60 videos for every topic that ChatGPT suggested me and bundle it as modules and uploaded to the learning management system and sell it as a course, but I am very lazy because I am lazy. I need a easiest way to write and do whole process. What I do is have a prompt.  If this is already mind-blowing to you, this will be much more mind-blowing to you. I copied one module here and one of the sub module which is exact video idea that we got from Sajeev Pichai and asked it to write me a script for this video inside my course considering this as my final video script. I will just read this out loud with zero editing. You're an expert content writer with 10 years of experience in crypto.  I'm asking chat GPT itself to write a script for all the 60 videos. I do one topic do 61 at a time and complete my talk. So now let's see the quality of it. It even giving me it's even giving me the editors thing.  Hello and welcome. I'm thrilled to guide you through an exciting journey into the world of cryptocurrencies. Today, we dwell into the world of our modern financial system and evolution into digital transactions that set the stage of the revolutionary emergency technologies. Let's start at the beginning. Long before paper money and digital transactions, there was a barter system. Goods were directly exchanged for other goods. However, the limitation of barter system like  The need for double coincidence of wants led to creation of money. As societies advanced, we saw the birth of coinage in ancient Lydia, which is in Italy if I'm not wrong or in Turkey if I'm not wrong.  This was first standardized units of value. Later, the Chinese introduced paper money in 9th century and innovation blah blah blah. How many of you think the script ChatGPT gave is so professional and human? Tap in the word professional in chat box. Tap in the word professional in the chat box if you think this is very professional and human. Yep. I could literally read this word by word.  and record video putting all this on a teleprompter and read it like a news reporter or a newsreader. Can I do that? Can you do this for your favorite topic that you could coach type in the word? Yes in the chat box. Yes. Can you do this? Is it very difficult? That's option number one option. Number two is you go to a website like HN, which I'm copy pasting here and use AI avatars. You could literally deep fake yourself  right now and you could autopilot the recording of the videos from Hagen. You could create voice deepfake and video avatar deepfake of yourself and give the script to Hagen. Hagen will just create a video with your avatar with your cloned voice. In any accent and other languages also you need.  And you don't even need to record them. All you need to do is send 25 seconds recorded video of yourself to agent and agent will understand the patterns your facial expressions. Now all that hand gestures and we'll be able to record it and you do this for 60 videos done. You have a product that you could literally make millions off of the market. If you are a good marketing expert. For marketing what we need here. We need a website. Okay.  Yeah, we need a website right you will go to a website like 10 web dot IO or Framer AI tool, you know, you'll use this two tools to build your website. You literally give one from that ChatGPT would give you and paste it in this websites and your website your web building will be automated by this tools.  Since we want to go a little more advance of building a business. I don't want to build a business take 15 minutes of your time. Is it? Okay. Can I skip the website building part and go to more advanced stuff which you could do like it's very easy takes time, but very easy. Yes, having the word. Yes in the chat box, please. Perfect. Cool. So now imagine what our website is done market research is done building the product is done website is done marketing is the next need.  What's better than digital marketing in Facebook using Facebook ads? I am going to create an end-to-end Facebook ads campaign for this particular product in Sajeevati in a minute.  Act as an expert paid ads marketer with 15 years of experience. I'll provide you with all the necessary details and it will be your job to come up with an ad campaign and ads for it that can help the brand exit sales conversion. My client is this my target is this my budget is this and I wrote a prompt from all the experience that I have. I just wrote a prompt and it simply created a table created a campaign audience and all for the people who don't have context of Facebook ads marketing very simple guys.  Facebook will ask you 50 questions before you start any marketing campaign to understand your products or service better. That's it. Answering those 15 questions is the job of a distal marketer, but you don't need a distal marketer anymore. It is killing my own job of being a distal marketer and distal agency owner, but that's fine.  The table number one is campaign. It created a campaign, allocated a budget, created a campaign type network, answered almost all the basic level questions and then identified interest that we could target on Facebook that could potentially buy our product. People who are into crypto newbies, blockchain starters, investing basics, people who are into this categories tend to purchase our products faster. Yes, type in the word yes in the chat box.  Yeah, perfect. So now, yeah, so it created audience table and then now it is creating our ads table. I'll just write one more prompt. Yeah, okay. Perfect, cool.  So ChatGPT is now creating an entire table campaign ad group at type headline one description one and description two and it in the campaign that it created in the ad group it created. It's now creating ad type headline one description one description to for all the 15 ad groups that it created. If you are a distal marketer now and mind-blown. Talking the word MB in the chat box.  as a digital marketer, if you are a mind-blown type in the word MP in the chat box, Aryan, Saran, Joseph, Larry, Rakesh, Steve, Suresh, Nagaraju, Madhavi, Aditya, Abhiram, Joel. You see, this is what we're talking about. And that's my 15 minutes of time. We build a business. What else we need? Market research, website, product, marketing. That's all right. You don't need anything. You could start your business.  How is the Josh guys? How is the Josh? Type it in the chat box. How is the Josh? Hi. Hi. Amazing. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. So now that we are done with building a business. This are we doing good? Am I doing good or am I boring good or boring type in the word perfect.  great amazing good good good thanks guys i thought i'm boring uh the content is little technical a lot of people might feel it's boring but very valuable is what i feel but anyway thank you so now we have an extra bonus on top of 15 000 rupees for 200 dollars worth of bonuses we have one more bonus  All you have to do is simple. If you share something about this master class on LinkedIn, you'll get to if you don't have LinkedIn at least on Instagram preferably LinkedIn because it will be useful for you recruiters will see that you're upskilling on AI getting certifications and all it will impact you in a very good way, which will result in 150 not so obvious ChatGPT prompts as a bonus to you all type in the word bonus in the chat box. If you really is interested.  All the bonuses once you fill the form you'll get it. But this extra bonus is for the people who share something positive about ourselves in the in the community masterclass about this in their LinkedIn. They will get it interested. Perfect. All you have to do is very simple. Take screenshot of me talking to you right now. Take a screenshot of me talking to you right now and you could share this on your LinkedIn. Yep. Perfect. Yep. Take screenshots. Hi.  A I. A I. A I. A I. Anyway, people were asking to pose so just I'm posing A here and I here. So yeah, so you could just take a screenshot and along with the picture just write some good caption about your experience so that other people will not feel something gimmicky and they'll also know what you're learning.  and then you know someone from my team will you know come to you to understand like you know in dm you all that you know bonuses through a google drive and i would request kundan to send all the links that they need to taggers including freedom with their linkedin page my linkedin page so that there's high chances of my team coming to you and sharing all the things if kundan is busy let me do it myself yeah  Yeah, cool. So these are the links that you have to tag while doing this. Yep. Okay, I only paste copied LinkedIn. I'll also copy don't have LinkedIn page. Okay, perfect. Copy paste is not happening here. Guys, click on the link. If not possible is copy paste not working type in the word. Yes or no.  Okay. Okay, if copy paste is not working for few people. All you have to do is very simple. Just click on the link and copy it yourself is clicking working. It is click. Are you able to click the link type in what the word yes or no? Yes.  Yes, perfect. That's the more important that we have to do that. We have to have right now. So let's continue guys. Let's continue. We don't have a lot of time. We have 15 20 minutes to complete the next part of it type in the word done. If you're done taking screenshots.  Yes, perfect, great, cool. Now, the most important and needed topic is how to make money through AI. Yes, type in the word money if you really want to make some extra money using AI. Yes, type in the word money.  Guys, I'm already getting the tags. There is this guy called Raj Shekhar already tagged and even sent him the message. Really great session and all. Thank you Raj Shekhar and you could do it. Thank you. So now how to make money through AI.  I already discussed one way of making money is like selling, you know, customer research to USA people. We also discussed how to build a tech companies using AI creating your own courses and becoming a coach that second way on top of this too. I'm going to show you four easy and highly profitable AI businesses with less than 4000 piece of investment type in the word 4000 in the chat box. If you're interested in this 4000 is $50 for the people who are international.  Okay, the first business model is book writing with no prior writing experience. You could actually write a book using AI and you could use something on my journey to create all your images and all the marketing material could be done by Canva, which is the most important tool for the world for AI people all this could be done and publish.  You could publish this as a self-publisher on Amazon and make a lot of money. You might be thinking Avinash. Why should I trust you? Can you show me some case studies? Sure. This lady called Lena leads made $900,000 in revenue. In fact right now, it would be a million dollars in revenue using Amazon. She wrote it using AI like all the tools that she wrote almost 50 titles.  Everything is written by AI. She just got famous in the last two years if I am not wrong. This book you see here Star of Sage and Scream the owl star which series book one. It's a series of books 17 books and the first book of the series got 1600 ratings with an average rating of 4.5 or 4.6. If 1600 people purchasing her product on an average 10x people should actually purchase that  If you get 100 people purchasing your product, 10% of them will be giving you the ratings. That means 16,000 people purchased her product at $1 each making herself $16,000 just from one book.  And the second book in the series. I'll show you the second book in the series. Where is this? Where is this? Yeah, I'll start with series. I was face. Thousand ratings 10,000 people purchasing $5 right now. It's not $1 anymore suspense there $5 5x money $5 each and it's a Kindle version. The best part is it's Kindle version. It's you don't even need to do anything. It's just a digital product.  Hardcover and paperback is also available, but we are only discussing about the money she would have made in the worst case if everyone purchased is a Kindle like is a you know is a from people. For the people who read books getting 4.5 rating on good reads is almost impossible. Agree readers out there who know good reads 4.5 is a huge rating and this is done by AI and Amazon knows it.  Yep. Right. Now if you see, this lady here with thousand ratings would have made $50,000 from the second book itself. And she got 247, 151, 343, 446, 552, 9, 620, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. If we combined everything, she would have got X ratings.  and we multiplied that X with 10x to get actual purchases and we multiplied that actual 10x purchasing into an average order value of 4 and she made a million dollars according to our calculation. Now, how many of you could take Lena Leeds as an inspiration and start writing their own book in ChatGPT and you all you need is maybe two weekends to complete your entire book using ChatGPT these days.  Type in the word yes in the comment section if you can take this as your inspiration and try making money with this. Yes. I'm not saying you the idea. I'm giving you how to do it with case studies of people that you could research little more upon and implement. Yes. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Yep.  Great. Of course, you will not be able to write Harry Potter like of things, but you don't need Harry Potter like good quality to make money all that. Yeah, anyways. Cool. Let's go to the next one. You could start a freelancing or AI automated marketing agency. Sitting from your home and make tens and thousands of dollars on top of it right now. Take my uncle as an example. You know, I have an uncle, my mother's brother works at Oracle.  you know in DB database management and stuff like that. 14-15 years of experience makes heck lot of money, very good amount of money because for 14 years he's into the same industry. So with 14 years of experience, a year back he discovered ChatGPT and other AI tools. He would be working for 5 to 6 hours or 7 hours a day  which are jeopardy. He reduced that six hours at max to three to four hours a day because it made him little more productive, especially for DBMS SQL and all it's it's very good. So now now this my mom or your uncle is now doing the same amount of work in four hours. Then he went to Fiverr and up for created freelancing profiles and started to fulfill the similar projects that he is working for his company or until  Not literally the same but in the similar line so that we don't even need to put a lot of brain right same office projects as a freelancer using AI tool. In the next three to four hours in his work time, like he would be working for four hours. He's still have for us extra time and he started to work as a freelancer and you know what he's making 2.5 X more revenue being a freelancer than his monthly job.  Damn his day job. How many of you think this is amazing? Type in the word amazing in the chat box. You know, he already have a three or four BHK apartment in Kondapur. Right now he is buying a villa in our, you know, I'm not sure villa or four BHK again, but he's buying it in Narsinghi, one of the biggest growing areas in Hyderabad, India.  Just imagine that like just one AI tool and being a freelancer changed his life and he didn't even work super hard just super smart. And you could take me also as an example tools. I used a creative at creative.ai Jasper.ai playground.ai flip.ai mid journey.ai all these are the tools that I use in my agency to scale it to 25 30 lakh rupees in revenue.  And we will be needing 20-25 people in our agency, but we only have less than 10 members right now in our active marketing agency. And we are using AI tools. You could take me or my uncle as an example and Lussa on top of it. Dukan, if you remember, 90% of the technical support staff were replaced with one AI chatbot.  And that chatbot was done by collaboration with a freelancing agency or some third-party agency with their internal team. If a freelancer or a small company could go to a half a billion dollar company and do this service of chatbots, building chatbots is a huge thing right now. Like AI chatbots to companies for internal purpose is a huge thing. And Dukan hired a third-party people.  And you could be that freelancer that could go to companies and offer AI related services and offer AI transformation in their company and make their own company better by giving your expertise to them and make money from that. This is the second, third or fourth way that we're discussing right now. How many of you could take inspiration from my mom or my uncle to be able to start your freelancing journey? Type in the word freelancing in the chat box.  Type in the word freelancing in the chat box if you would love to take inspiration and start your own freelancing career. You might be thinking Avinash, I'm not so very good at what you do. You don't need to. People across the world are looking for average people. They just don't have time. They are okay working with average people or basic people.  right and you could be a non-technical person or even non-IT person and doing design a handmade greeting cards or voice overs if your voice is good there are unlimited amount of opportunities that you could go to Fiverr  and fulfill projects and also fulfilling projects with AI tools could make you more money than anything using AI right now. One of the best ways to make money type in the word. Yes in the chat box. If you now can trust me and do try this in the next weekend type in the word. Yes in the chat box.  Yes, amazing sell print-on-demand digital products guys, you know, there are websites like HC replica of Amazon, but in USA and which is very famous in USA, but also, you know, reliably famous in other countries also. Kind of little high-end not like Amazon cool stuff will be there. So people were selling digital stickers and digital planners and digital images on HC.  using mid-journey, they're creating it and they're using Canva to be able to create their marketing material. And all around the world, people are selling the stickers and digital products to the people who are in USA and making money from them. Yep, if you want to see an example, there is this lady called bilidesign.co. You know, all she does is sell stickers like this.  You know, stickers like this. That's it. At $4 each, you know, she sold 3.6 lakhs, I'm sorry, 3.6 lakhs of sales.  on an average order value of 4 even if you take 350 she would have made 1.4 million dollars from HC selling this digital downloadable stickers is digital downloadable. It's a PDF format. Someone has to go out. Print it from a mall or some digital sticker stop and stick it to their you know, tumbler, you know, you might be thinking it's very difficult to create this as a non-designer. I'll show you one way to do it.  Yeah, let's just ask ChatGPT to be able to get all I did is copy the description of the product itself. And then let's see how ChatGPT will be able to you know, create an image like that or not before that. Let's see one more example happy downloads.  Now this guy or lady. I think she's lady, you know, happy downloads sells digital planners and stickers and you know, how like see the stickers like I know all this checker email stickers. I doctors I test all the small small stickers is what she sells and charges approximately eight nine dollars and she  had 2 lakh sales with an average order of value of $5 each, she would have made $1 million by selling these digital stickers. You might be thinking, Avinash, why in the world people are actually purchasing the stickers for $5, $10? I would never do this. Logical explanation for here is people in USA, UK minimum  they make a $20 per hour. That's their minimum. Like there will be no one making less than $20 who are on HC shopping list. If they're making $20 of a minimum thing, to collect all the stickers somewhere from the internet, do it themselves would cost them 4 to 5 hours minimum. These are like 200 digital stickers guys. It takes a lot of time.  They are actually saving 4 to 5 hours or $100 by spending $5 that buying back their 4 to 5 hours time. That's what you have to look at it. And people don't mind spending 5 hours to buy back 4 hours of their time by just purchasing something ready-made. But this guy is leveraging one product selling it 100 people at $5 discounted price. No, and you might be thinking this is difficult. No guys.  to see this don't you think this tumbler sticker is actually good when you compare this with this like yes or no do you think not let's say good or not let's not discuss about good or bad but do you think i could list it on hc and make money from it yes or no is it almost as good as this particular thing  What I did, I didn't even do any prompt without any prompt just copy paste in the description over here got me this. What if I could prompt it little better and explain what I need. Don't you think I could just create this on ChatGPT post it on HC do this for 100 times list 100 products and make money. Yeah.  and you saw two people making money this way. Type in the word, yes, if you want to start HC store immediately tomorrow, if you want by taking this as your inspiration, yes or no. Type in the word, yes, in the chat box, if you want to take this people as an inspiration, yes, perfect. Type in the word, me in the chat box right now, if you're for the first time typing something in the chat box, type in the word, me.  For the first time for all the people who not once typed anything in the chat box type in the word me. I want to look at your names. Yeah. Yes. No type in the word me. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Thank you. Now continue the flow just engage with me the more engaging you are the more time you could spend on the more knowledge that you get. Anyway, let's go to the next.  We last but not least in the hacking every small tool and normal tool will become an AI tool will not will is becoming a tool right now. And the best part is ChatGPT gives you API access so that you could take hold ChatGPT features by taking API and build something on top of it. You could use a no code local SAS tools like bubble  and air table for your data management and you know, all that and bubble for your you know, bubble for your front end and your back end will be hosted by ChatGPT is API and build some useful product to the world and make money from it. You might be thinking Avinash. I know I'm a developer, but I know I'm not dumb to you know, I'm not dumb to see this making money. How many of you are feeling this way type in the word? Yes in the chat box.  If your view right now is this am I dumb not to understand this is so easy to make money. This is not possible. It's impossible. How many of you developers are thinking like this type in the word? Yes. Okay, I'm reading names. Okay, perfect. Great. Now, how many of you remember this? Lensa, you know in the hacking success story lens are used API of open source neural network model called stable diffusion.  which is readily available in hugging phase for chat, you know, GitHub and trained its AI and created a software. They created a software which is the front end by using some no codes as to like bubble and the back end is powered by stable diffusion. And that's it would have spent $200 to develop and $400 worth of server costs to start the whole thing and it become very famous Instagram celebrities shade their AI generated avatars and they have made 16.2 million dollars in revenue in 2022.  with eight million dollars happening in December 2022 alone a million dollars is eight crores in Indian rupees by the way just calculate how much money they made and this is 2020 tools data they would have made more money in 2023 because it's very famous in 2023. Now how many of you think you're convinced that you could make money using this this is the epitome of success stories where they are using some readily available  in a stable, readily available open source model. Yes. Are you guys convinced right now? Type in the word no, if you're still not convinced. Type in the word no. Be genuine guys. If you're not convinced, what I'm talking is not making sense. Type in the word no. Two people are saying no.  character.ai a small AI company started two years ago is now valued at 5 billion dollars or 40 000 crores you know what they do simple this still to date value net 5 billion dollars use chat gpts api they took chat gpts api  and fine-tune ChatGPT API with the character based bots. They created bots on Elon Musk a psychologist a Mario or you know, Joe Biden and all these people what they did is they took ChatGPT. Power of ChatGPT. They crawl entire information about that particular character available on the internet and created a chatbot and users who chat with this particular chatbot feels like they're really talking with those particular persons involved like Elon Musk and stuff like that.  They're just mimicking the real person and they created hundreds and thousands of chatbots and right now it is second most in a website with a lot of traffic after ChatGPT in the AI space. It is almost one time even bed ChatGPT for a couple of days and right now it's second highest viewed a search chat, you know, I know AI app.  and it's using ChatGPT API even now now I was convinced that in the word convinced or no, if you're not convinced type in the word. No, and if you're convinced type in the word convinced convinced. She was just no so, you know, what should I do to make you convince that you can actually make money have one more girl a 16 year old Indian girl launched an AI company in 2022 and it is now valued at hundred crores.  The name of the lady is Pranjali Avasthi and her company is Dells.ai. So now if a 16 year old could do it. Average age of this webinar attendees would be somewhere around 200, sorry, somewhere around 30 to 40. Can't we do it? Can't we do it? If a 16 year old girl is doing it, can't we all, if we have a right mindset, can't we all do it? Type in the word yes or no. Someone says I'm 20. Yes.  13 17 wow 13 year old is watching till now 25 42 36 19 20 60 24 59 12 you're the youngest any more youngest wow  69. Amazing. I hope you're not scamming me by saying 69 bro. Anyway, let's go. See how many of you now could take Pranjali Awasthi as an example, as an inspiration and start their own AI side hustles. Type in the word yes in the chat box. Type in the word yes in the chat box. Can you all, can you all do it? Yes. Is it possible? Are you now convinced that you could actually make money using AI?  Perfect AI is the most lucrative industry. You could be right now. If you know what you're doing type in the word. Yes, if you agree with the first statement in the in the screen type in the word. Yes, even if you never typed in the word, yes type in the word me right now type in the word. Yes, if you also agree with the second statement, which is prompt engineering is a skill of the century type in the word. Yes, if you agree with the second statement. Yes, amazing type in the word. Yes in the chat box. If you agree with the third statement, which is making money from a eyes is not very difficult.  It's not rocket science. Yes and type in the word. Yes. Yes. Yes for three times in a message. If you agree with all the street statements. Yes. Yes. Yes in the chat box. Perfect. Thank you. Now, let's recap what we have learned today in the last two and a half hours approximately. We have learned three things number one safeguard your future and how AI is evolving faster than we can imagine and how to be prepared by spending few minutes a day.  Type in number one in the chat box. If you have learned point one point to what is prompt engineering and why we need millions of them in next few months type in number two. If you have learned the point number to type in number three, if you have learned five ways to make money using AI with less than four thousand rupees of investment. In fact, we did six weeks. Did we do it? Type in number one, two, three. If you have learned all these three things type in the one, two, three.  Amazing amazing. So now type in the word great. If you feel we over delivered on our promises having the word great in the chat box. If you if you feel we over delivered. Wow, 400 people saying great already. Thanks guys. Thanks a lot. So now let me ask you a question.  How many of you realize that you could lose your job in next one to two years and you won't be able to take care of your family. If you kind of ignore AI right now type in the word. Yes in the chat box type in the word. Yes in the chat box. If you ignore AI right now, there is a potential possibility of that happening. Yes.  Yep, so don't ignore AI. Second, let me ask you a question. How many of you realize whatever we learned in the last two and a half hours is less than 1% of AI? Agreed? All the developers, machine learning engineers, data scientists, type in the word, yes, if you think what we have learned in the last two and a half hours is less than 1%. Someone is saying 0.1%, bro. Exactly. It's less than 0.1% that we have learned about AI in the last two and a half hours.  There is a lot more to learn. Imagine you're feeling like this by just equipping yourself with point one percent of the world of AI how fulfilling it could be if you could at least get 10% of the world of prompt engineering AI and non-technical prompt engineering agreed. Yes. Perfect. So now the only thing left right now is to get going and you have three options in front of you.  Option number one or path number one do nothing with what I have learned today. I'm 100% sure no one in the webinar right now would choose to go with path number one. If you're doing it, you're borderline bad.  It's a bad thing guys. Don't do the path one. It's the worst thing that you could do to yourself. You spend three hours approximately with me right now. And if you're just doing nothing about the information that we have learned if you're not implementing now having knowledge doesn't matter only implementing matters. Yes agreed type in the word. Yes in the chat box if you agreed.  Path number two, take what we have learned from this masterclass today and expand your knowledge on your own.  While path 2 is better than path 1, the problem with path 2 is lack of accountability, lack of motivation, and lack of a perfect roadmap and guided mentorship to do 3 years worth of work in the next 1 year or 6 months. How many of you agree doing all these things on your own is almost impossible? Type in the word yes in the chat box if you think expanding your knowledge on your own is very difficult. If you would have done that,  You already have one and a half years since ChatGPT release. You would have done that already because you don't have the correct roadmap. It gets very difficult. It gets very demotivating. It gets very time-taking agreed. Yes. Perfect. Yeah, but not impossible, but it's very difficult. That's what I'm saying.  So now part number three leverage our experience and let us help you to protect your career in the world of AI evolution by partnering up with freedom with AI. How many of you want to choose part three tab in the word three like if you would love to choose part three.  by partnering with us and continue the journey with us, maybe even from tomorrow for the next one year. If you want to continue this journey, if you feel that energy that you got in the last two and a half hours is the same energy that you want to continue having for the next two, three, and six months, one year, type in the word three in the chat box. Absolutely, right? I want to continue.  Perfect. If so, I do like to ask you permission to tell you more about the most exciting program. I have ever created with a deal of a lifetime that will never be available again tab in the world. Yes in the chat box. If we get 50% of you people saying at least yes, right at least 500 people 16 people saying yes, would love to talk about that. Yep, we got 200 people saying yes till now.  I'll just sit in the meantime. Perfect 300 people saying yes already 350 400. Perfect. Perfect guys. Perfect. We got 500 already almost done to 20 of perfect. Perfect. Let's go next.  Since all of you almost said yes, we are inviting you to join our new program which is Freedom with AI membership. How it works? Pretty simple. It's like Netflix, but for AI. Just like you watch web series on weekend about some random, you know, thing. You come to Freedom with AI.  in this one year and learn a lot about AI from tens of courses and hundreds of hours worth of content that we created especially on AI so that no matter who you are an IT or non-IT or any kind of working professional or executive or a business owner or a student you could spend your time and gain a lots and lots of knowledge in this membership freedom with AI is Netflix, but for AI.  How many of you are excited? Type in the word excited to know a little more about us. Type in the word excited in the chat box. Perfect, perfect. Perfect. Before we brag about ourselves, let us show you a couple of testimonials and see how learners are feeling. This is Reena from Germany. I've been following Avinash on Instagram for a long time, say one, two years.  And as soon as I came to know he's giving a masterclass on AI, artificial intelligence, I just didn't wait for a second and registered myself for the IA class. The masterclass was really, really great. I also took the membership for one year and it's been just one, two months into the membership and we have learned so much. There's a lot of content that he has been sharing with examples, everything, tips and tricks.  And there's still a lot of time to go, a lot of months. And I'm already overwhelmed, but we are going to learn everything. I suggest you all to do, attend the masterclass, take a right decision, and do also the membership, because you are going to learn a lot. I've never seen someone so dedicated and so honest. The way Avinash tells you tips and tricks and everything, he has himself been trying.  No one is going to do that. So I just suggest you all to do that and you will never regret it. Thank you. And she's from Germany, NRI, you know, Rina. You know, very sad story, but I just wanted to narrate it. And, you know, one of the huge success stories of Freedom With AI to date, you know, what she did is, you know, she basically  Someone in the family lost the job. She has to become the solo breadwinner of the family at one point for like a few months and she got two kids, four and six. She joined us, maintained the family, attended the job in the day and then in the night she used to complete the course content. Three months down the line after all this, doing all of this,  She managed to publish two self-published books on Amazon and started to make a good amount of revenue to fulfill her family's needs. And that is Reena. And this makes me more emotional and inspiring than Elon Musk launching the second rocket. Because we've been able to help someone in need to, you know, scale their income. How many of you think  This is true for you also type in the word. Yes in the chat box. If you feel inspired from stories like Rina the other than anonymous successfully launching the next rocket or ChatGPT launching some next AI stuff. Yes. Yeah, and we have the second testimonial from a guy called Vinay and he's from Pune anyone from Pune type in the word. Yes in the chat box.  So I recently bought this course Freedom with AI from Avinash and it was definitely worth the money like I know the money which I invested I will definitely make way more money back in return because the things work whatever he is teaching in the monetization methods and everything about AI definitely this course is structured in a way that it has all the things you need to succeed  like he's teaching the skills, you have all the content available, then you have a mentor, that is Avinash, he's already been successful at running his agency, scaling it to seven figures, then you have the community of like-minded people like me, like we have the community of people who are learning and trying to make money with AI, doing things with AI, but if it has all the three things, you need to succeed. Definitely Avinash has been a great help,  like he does QnA calls frequently and answers all your doubts even if it's not directly related to AI it's related to making money online like building an agency so he helps in everything he can to help you so definitely if you want to start making money with AI or using AI to make more money to  Increase your efficiency. This would be the best course. I think it was definitely worth the money. So Vinay joined a few months back with us right now, you know, he's from Pune took a eardrop 20 year old. He's making 2.5 lakh rupees on an average per month from his email AI based email appointment setting agency. He works for USA and UK clients.  and he may he's making to 2.5 1.5 to 2.5 lakh rupees per month on an average and he is 20 year old guys 20 year old i hope we'll be able to talk to him for 10 minutes in this session itself in 15 minutes we'll have him talking to us to share his experience but now see me one thing if a 20 year old could make an extra two lakh rupees or three four thousand rupees three four thousand dollars would you be able to make it yes or no type in the word yes or no  if given the best interest of yourself and two to three hours at max per day like one hour is more than enough but two to three hours like is the max do you think you will be able to do it do you trust yourself type in the word yes given the same amount of guidance that i am giving you for the last three hours will you able to do it do you trust yourself yes it's enough if you do it  And get to that 2, 3, 2, 4, 5 thousand dollars per month or 2 lakh rupees per month. What would change in your life? I would love to know that. Like what would that mean to you? Someone says my kids education. Wow. If that's the first thing that you got into your brain, you're amazing mother. Thank you. Family standards, everything. My whole life, Anaya.  my family's future, financial stability, my debts, help my parents, better medical assistance, life insurance, my dream, travel, confidence, better clothes, I can totally relate, help my family, daughter's education, daughter's life security, to make my credits, college fees, my own life, freedom of life,  And that is what we are talking about. It gives you more freedom and that freedom could be achieved with AI. That's why we have freedom with AI guys. Financial freedom, helping people, charity, giveaway, self-confidence, better life to my family, better standards, daughter's life. I would get cook and made for my home.  Sumita, you are amazing. I can totally relate to you. I can totally relate. You know, 10,000 rupees for a cook or 5,000 rupees for a maid. A lot of people do all those things. But you know, you could spend a lot more time with your kids and husband or wife or all that. Yeah, support my husband.  Cool. So now let's go here is how freedom with a membership works pillar number one. You will get action-based videos to upskill yourself with our massive hundred hours plus video library. It's right now 200 hours by the way that can that you could watch for the next few months. It's a one year membership by the way for 365 days. You could watch it.  by the end of this year, you will get instructions, guidance and community support from 35-40 countries to help you support every step of the way. It's not just about the community, it's also about the community manager that we have, who you could get on an onboarding call, get a personalized roadmap, understand all your needs and get the best out of this investment that you're trying to do.  Pillar number three, weekly two live classes. You can attend at least one to teach you more advanced concepts and clear all your doubts. Pillar number four, weekly accountability. We will ask you what you are doing the last week, what you're planning to do this week, and how much you did. All that tracking of progress could be done and could be taken accountable.  How many of you think the four pillars are amazing? Type in the word four in the chat box if you think the pillars sounds amazing and would love to know more. Type in the word four. And everything that you're trying to see right now is properly gamified. Like I'll also show you a little bit of that towards the end and what you're going to get.  The first course in this whole thing is freedom with AI blueprint which covers foundation of AI applications and prompt engineering for dummies like who are starting out with our prompt engineering for all those people.  especially the non-technical prompt engineers by end of this you could literally become a non-technical prompt engineer and apply for the jobs. And by the way, we also give you job assistance. We will give you how to write a great CV how to talk to talk to people in interviews and we'd also give you three to four hundred job listings on AI every single month that you could go watch. This videos and apply for the jobs that we're trying to give you all that and freedom with a blueprint covers prompt engineering.  and all the job assistance too. So, you see people from IITs and IBDs comes to us and say that you have better resources even when you compare with my college when it comes to non-technical prompt engineering.  you might be from IIT Bombay but you will find better non-technical prompt engineering resource or videos than your college in us in our think and I could bet that if your college seems to have a better product of non-technical prompt engineering don't mind.  it's I'm 100% sure on that there are like tens of people said the same we are the best in the whole country when it comes to non technical prompt engineering right now in 2024 and in the month of May we would be top three I'm saying with all you know don't feel that I'm just hyping up but then with all the honesty with all the things people say to us and I'll also show you a lot of reviews that we get and you know so that so now  Once you complete this particular course, you will be able to do SEO content, YouTube scripts, write books, do a lot of coding stuff, bug fixing, code documentation, explaining coding techniques and concepts, marketing campaigns from scratch, all the things that you're seeing here done by AI. Add copies could be done by AI. HR and recruitment activities could be done by AI. These are like top 10, but there are 100 different things that you could do apart from this, but these are very basics that I wanted to cover.  That's the first course valued at 25,000 rupees in India. The value of this particular course people other people sell is a minimum of 25 30,000 rupees with this kind of content and the whole guidance and community in USA people are selling it for at least $2,000 $2,000 is what people are charging for this kind of content for only one course, but we are just valuing it at 25,000 rupees.  and image prompt engineering mid-journey mastery or stable different mastery and talented mastery. These are the top three image prompt engineering tools that you need to get to be a proper image prompt engineer.  On top of ChatGPT. You also need to learn how to generate images so that you will be able to do logos like this thumbnails like this blog post images like this add creatives like this photo realistic images like this UI your screens like this every single screen that you're seeing on screen right now. All the screens are actually generated by AI. If you are a UX designer and mind-blown type in the word UX in the chat box.  Yeah. You see, this is what I'm talking about. It could literally do a very complex visual design like this right now from scratch using AI.  And you could be able to do game assets like this if you complete this. You could be able to generate graphics for children's books like this, animes, print-on-demand products. You could sell this kind of products on Etsy or other e-commerce stores. Fashion and textile designs like this could be done with AI. Professional mock-ups like this. And interior designs like this. And image prompt engineering is valued at 20,000 rupees.  In India people sell this niche course of image prompting staring at 30,000 40,000 and the USA people sell it at 3,000 4,000 dollars. I'm talking about the same in-depth courses that we if we compare this with those they charge a hell lot of money. And now we are valuing our course very nominally at 20,000 rupees total value of this two courses in the market is 45,000 rupees, but because you stay till the very end and completed this master class.  This is only going to be available for you at 20,000 rupees or 242 dollars. This is a silver membership type in the word silver. If you would love to enroll and at the price of 20,000 rupees of 242 dollars only for the people who type in the word silver will be able to send you the links directly. If you don't type anything will not be able to send you the links type in the word silver in the chat box.  And then we created something called gold on top of silver to make this 10x more valuable. But why pricing it like 20% more than this? That's it. So now what we did is silver is dedicated by me like, you know, or my team. Three months after the launch, we realize it is amazing feedback that we are getting.  What we thought is hey, if people are almost being so overwhelmed from the knowledge that we have by ourselves and feeling so valuable, how good it could be if I could bring my own mentors who taught me AI to teach my people, my learners. That's what we did and onboarded our first mentor called Madhu Vamsi. He did a course called AI for Developers. If you're a developer, this guy, you could literally see him as like a demigod after knowing about him, just joking.  But he got 5 research papers published on AI and ML with a very high citation score making him one of the top 100 data scientists in the whole country India. And he did internships with ISRO, worked for ISRO, worked for many other multi-billion dollar company, been there, did that.  and now teaching you on how to use AI for all the developers. How many of you think this course could be your game changer type in the word game changer in chat box. If you think this in this could be a game changer and just to keep your perspective gets to give you a perspective. If you have three research papers published on your name, you could get a PhD on the particular, you know area and this guy have five of them. Think about it.  Very high guys, very highly valued and very less known. He just don't talk a lot in social media and one of very good friends and we onboarded for him and the course minimum the value the kind of content we have in this course is almost 20 hours or 10 hours and I think 20 hours. Yeah, 2022 hours and the value even we say it's 50 $60. It's 5000 rupees. That's what we are valuing very nominal value. And this is all gold goes.  He also created one more course for a a course where we teach you how to build chatbots simple to complex free to paid we covered everything in between and I could say hands down. This could be the best chatbot building course in the history of internet. I could say that you could literally build very complex chatbots using AI APIs of time security and this could be the most complex and the most in-depth course that you can get.  when it comes to this particular a a course again dot by mother. How many of you want to make money by selling chatbots that in the word chatbot in the chatbot chat box right now. I'm the word chat box. Telling the word chatbot if you really want to know and understand and make money using chatbots. In the worst case guys worst case, you might not be able to make money in the worst case, but the good case here is. You will be at least building chatbots  that you could put on caption projects in your CV or resume and show the whole world, show the next company that you're joining that you had a lot of AI expertise. That could be the worst case scenario.  And even that is a lot better. You are increasing the weightage of your CV by adding the certifications and resumes, you know certifications and capstone projects. The value of this course is 5000 rupees and we onboarded one more person called Rama Katunga. He worked at Michael, you know, Microsoft Intel and Samsung at one point. He headed entire data team at Samsung and we bought him not to teach you remember we bought him not to teach you data science, but to teach you how to crack jobs how to pick it how to prepare your resumes  and give you the job assistance. He himself hired thousands of hundreds of people for his organizations and help thousands of people in job prep. Remember guys here you see observe things. I'm not getting a random head start to you to teach you how to get a job in the world of AI. I am getting someone who is head of data at Samsung to teach you that. Type in the word game changer in the chat box. If you think this could be your game changer.  And then the fourth mentor we onboarded or third mentor we onboarded is Leela Shankar. He is AI for he created a course for AI for self-employed business owners and marketers and he works you know as a growth consultant and marketing consultant for almost 100 startups at WeHub and T-Hub. For the people who don't know T-Hub it is the world's largest incubation center.  located in Hyderabad, India. Bigger than all the USA-based, you know, things. It's one of the, not one, THE, THE world's largest. He works there.  mentors hundreds of startups and he know how to use AI and he worked at multiple companies in USA as a CXO like and been to the board members which is like 3,000 4,000 members uh employee companies as a CXO he worked and then came back to India mentors hundreds of startups we bought him  to teach you how to be a better business owner better self-employed person using AI. If you think this could be your game changer type in the word. Yes in the chat box. I'm the word. Yes in the chat box. If you think this could be your game changer amazing. We also have AI enhanced Excel mastery. If you're someone who uses Excel day in and day out. We have an AI course on that to make you a better at Excel mastery and five thousand rupees in value. We're giving you all this in gold on top of it the gold  It's not 65,000 rupees for the next 15 minutes and 40 members. The gold price is 30,000 rupees only tap in the word gold in the chat box. If you really really really want to take gold and if you want to go with silver take silver in the chat box that never silver or gold in the chat box guys someone from my team will contact you. So now  Can I take two minutes of your time and share a very personal story of mine that I generally don't share anywhere on social media? Can I take two minutes of your time? That would be the end of our presentation. Can I do that? Yes. Thank you. Thanks a lot guys. You see in 2021, I lost a lot of my net worth into cryptocurrency. I invested in Bitcoin and all. Although I invested certain money and made a little bit of  Profits, but in the long term, I lost a lot of money in crypto. While crypto is crashing during that period of time, we used to have 75% of our clients from the world of crypto and 75% of them, all of them off-boarded with us because they don't have marketing budgets. When crypto is crashing, other cryptocurrency companies also don't have a lot of marketing budgets.  We went from 25 lakh rupees in revenue to 4 lakh rupees in overnight just in a week or two. We have 14 members in our payroll.  And it's been two months this happened. I don't know what to do. Employees were just resigning left, right, center because there are no projects and we're not able to pay salaries on time. I have money, but a lot of that money also vanished into cryptocurrency crash that I also personally experienced. And I have some fixed assets like lands and all, but I can't sell the land to run my company, right? It gets very difficult.  You know almost at one point I even sold that lance and stuff and you know to just pay the salaries 3-4 months later in the April if I am not wrong or May  I lost my grandmother. The grandmother that showed me the world of business by starting her business at the age of 16, she used to do export of pickles business. She used to sell Indian pickles in USA, UK. She used to sell it for all the people there and in locally she used to have a curry pot. Like all the curries like dal and all that she used to do and she used to sell.  and they made 25 lakh rupees of pure savings in the five years and lot of gold and traveled whole country my grandfather and grandmother together they did this and she is a main pillar and that inspired me at the age of 14 11 to 14 somewhere around that she inspired me to get in the business and I lost her I'm already in the personal crisis and I lost my grandmother  That is like the worst thing that happened to me. But at least some way I'm accepting she's like 65. She saw her life. She's happy. I was trying to convince myself that someday she should go and she's very peaceful. Everything is what I thought. And then convincing myself to get out of that grief. Just in two days, we realized my mother and father, both of them tested COVID positive and went on to hospital. They were in ICU fighting for life for almost 14 days.  And luckily, we got our father back from ICU and COVID because he's double vaccinated since he's 46. In India back in 2021, May, June, you don't have vaccinations for people under 45.  And that took away my mother's life. My mother is 44 and we just lost my mom because she is single vaccinated. She's not able to cope up. She's not able to fight. She got all two chronic diseases. And we just lost her. I still remember.  Now the reason she lost her life is because a lot of antibiotics usage in the beginning which we can't complain because that's the thing because of using high antibiotics she got periods like 15 days before her actual time and she was not able to fight for life in ICU because she is very weak when she gets it right and she is in the 44-45 at that point of time I can totally understand I'm like now I'm understanding but back then I didn't understand anything  And nurses are saying that it's worst. Flow is worst is what the nurse used to say. My mom at one point said, kill me. Literally, I would rather die rather than being like this on a ventilator and do all this.  And at one point, doctors also came in and asked, do you think it's a good thing to make her fight like this when so much things, so much blood, so much is out? And I was like, no, she has to fight. And then, you know, I still remember I didn't have the last word with my mom. I was in the lift. Two minutes before I reached my mom and my brother and my mom, she's gone.  I went to depression. For three months, I didn't even come outside the sun, literally.  My businesses are almost on the shutdown. I don't have anything to do. Like I have like one or two people still working with me, but without taking any money and maybe making a lakh or two in revenue at that point of time. And these people are like doing charity. My clients know that I'm going through this and they were just with me for two years. They don't want to cut the relationship. I'm not delivering anything, but still they're paying me. I don't know. I'm super grateful for them at that point of time. Yeah.  That's my story guys. At that point of time, this guy, Leela Shankar, drew to my home and suggested, man, you are going through a lot. I know you're almost shut down. Start using an AI tool called Jasper. That changed my life. One tool, Jasper, back then it's Jarvis, changed my entire life, guys.  From that one tool, we discovered more AI tools, like four, five to six AI tools that changed the trajectory of my agency. From two lakh or a lakh rupees in revenue, we went back to 14 and even 25 lakhs in the next six to nine, somewhere around nine months.  All we did is fulfill lot of SEO based projects by getting our content at bulk faster and productive using jasper.ai at that point of time. One AI tool because of Leela Shankar changed everything for me. And then I realized the value of AI and how amazing AI is which saved my life literally, which saved my business. I also realized the cons of AI.  I'm so emotional right now thinking of my mom. I was just literally stopping my tears but then I don't want to make it look unprofessional. Anyway.  So all this is happening and no luckily we went back to the whole you know friend and AI saved us. We got to know the power pros and cons of AI then decided to do a whole edtech company on that completed a course in 2022 by the end. Then ChatGPT also came in which helped us a lot in 2022 ChatGPT is out in the month of December and then I went on to experts to ask how much I should price this particular course.  I remember one line my mom said in the month of Jan or Feb when I am going through personal financial crisis.  She told me Avinash you're making rich people rich, but you never made a middle-class businessman or a poor businessman or someone who is like not super rich. You never helped them and created a mass impact. Maybe in your next startup or next phase of business start helping masses and create impact don't count impact in money. If you invest your money in your energy in someone else to make them more successful.  . So then I went on to see I did some calculations and realized 9997 plus GST or $144 for silver would be the best price to sustainably profitably grow my company at a 10-20% EBITDA margin SO the silver member will be cost for only Rs9997 plus GST or $144.  just for next 15 minutes and 40 members. This is a silver membership prize and for the gold. It's not 65. It's not 30. It's only 13 997 plus GST or 202dollars. So GST would be somewhere around 18% for Indians for everyone. So yeah, so this is how it works.  Just for 15 minutes and 40 members. The reason why we only take limited quantity is because we wanted to give the best experience. If you take more than 40, no matter how many people more we hire, it's little difficult. So we only have 40. Type in the word gold or silver in the chat box so that we could give you the access.  And I'm sorry for not able to take more than 40 guys in 10-15 minutes. Generally, once we open the slots give you the payment links it runs out, but we can't help to maintain the quality. We have to do it and Kundan will be sharing the links of those things in the chat box. Perfect.  You know, you'll also get the certificate fill the certificate form in the last link in this in this particular series of links will be the certificate and we have lot and lot of EMI options, which are no cost EMI options. Okay.  Yeah. And we also have GST input. If you're a business owner, 18% GST input will be given. 16,500 is the final price for the gold. And we have a lot of EMI options that you could use. This is the EMI option. We have almost 13 banks, HDFC, ICICI and all that. And you could use this three months, six months, nine months, 12 months, literally you're paying 1300 rupees, like literally 1300 rupees per month.  to to be with us for the next one 12 months yep 12 months 1300 rupees each no cost zero percent interest we will give you the discount before you paying us  your credit card company will just cut the discount and you will if it is 16 000 will cut like 14 000 and all the interest will be paid by will give you a print uh you know discount on the interest it is for all the indian people and for us unfortunately we don't have that emi option yet but uh you could convert it from yourself so this is how the freedom with ai gold membership works and silver also the same thing so so uh perfect and let's get  Vinay on board. Vinay is the person that you know that we are talking about in the in the particular testimonial. Let's have a word with Vinay. Hi Vinay. Okay I think he have to first come in.  So guys, how many of you are excited to join our membership type in the word how many of you are excited to invest your money into freedom with a membership type in the word? Yes, if you are right now taking in this step the bold step to invest your hard-earned money and your time in your energy into this type in the word. Yes in the chat box. Amazing. Amazing. Hi Vinay. How are you? Hi, how are you? I'm good. Amazing Vinay. Where are you from Vinay? Yeah, I'm from Pune.  Amazing. You're from Pune generally or you shifted to Pune for study purpose? Yeah, for studying like for engineering but I am from like a small town in Maharashtra. Perfect.  So what do you do with AI right now? Like you have an AI based email marketing appointment setting agency. So what do you do generally for the people that are here? Mostly I help other agencies with client acquisition. So with appointment setting, I can use like email for that, like cold emails. So I use AI for copywriting and doing market research and all sorts of things. Amazing. So what is it? Who is your first client and how much he or she paid you?  yeah so i mean the first land in total he paid me like four to five lakhs so it's crazy and he i got him just because of AI like i was also going through his email today like the email i sent him i wrote it with AI and oh because i used to follow a lot of prompt engineering from this course like even the project i built in college  that was like a chatbot so like I used to do a lot of formed engineering and so when I was applying to his position I just used AI to write the follow up to write the first email and that guy was impressed by it like he said  told me later that the email I wrote was the best follow up email he ever saw because I put a lot of time into it so yeah like doing prompt engineering and like asking gpt a lot of outputs and seeing which one is the best and so that got me the job first job  So you're from India and if I'm not wrong you're working for clients in USA UK and your first client together in last 4-5 months gave you a revenue of 5-6 lakhs and email that you wrote with AI closed him and he publicly said it because of that email you know no one wrote an email like that and you got it am I right? Yeah yeah he told me in one of the calls that like Vinay as he hired you because the follow up email you sent was the best  Amazing. And thanks, you're kind enough to share this experience of yours that we also help you in that writing emails through prompting techniques. I mean, so what was the revenue that you generated in the month of Jan, April? How much is like your average? Yeah, average is one to two lakhs. So I calculate like MRR. So I like to keep it one to two lakh right now before I like scale and everything.  Amazing. So definitely you got a lot of help from Freedom With AI, right? Yeah. So now, how is your life after making that extra one to two lakh rupees per month? Yeah, I mean I took a gap year and I can like invest a lot in like mentorship, coaching and like whatever the future I want.  I know I can have that knowledge because I have also seen you do it and I know like it just I mean you can get whatever you want and most people's goal like it is all about money like how much money you want that will help them achieve the dream life and that is that is the main thing. Perfect. So now how are you spending your money?  Mostly like in crypto and I mean I didn't keep a lot of money in my bank but yeah most I have like put a lot of money in like crypto like a few thousand dollars and then other in courses and subscriptions things like that.  Okay, perfect. Where are you seeing in the next six months? My goal is to keep the revenue constant and then scale it to 5 to 10 lakh maybe like just solve the problem of client acquisition fully for the clients.  not just by cold email because the laws are also changing around cold email and I can offer things like content creation appointment setting combined. So helping them with branding and then helping them with appointment setting things like that. So the market is very big for them like coaches against rumors. Perfect guys. Are you facing problem with paying money type in the word? Yes, if you are international customer are not able to make the payment type in the word. Yes in the chat box.  yes yeah arun swati says yes suresh says yes a lot of people are facing some problem with this so what i'll do is i'll just give you one more link just give me one second for all the international people just try and make payment through this links uh yeah try and make through this links  Okay, a second guys, I don't know what's happening. I'll just look into this and give you a perfect link in a minute. Okay. Yeah, perfect. So I'm pasting in the links for all the international folks type it. I think this will work. Yeah.  Yeah, so these are the payment links that you can use right now for all the international people type in the word. Yes, if you are clicking the international link right now and being type in the word. Yes. Perfect.  Okay, guys, one second. I'm just trying to see what's going wrong with this. Yeah, perfect. Something happened wrong with the stripe. We give you the new stripe links. Just try and make the payment with it and we will see, you know, what could we do with that? Type in the word. Yes, if that's the payment is done and will also give you a Google form to be filled. So, you know, you can actually fill the Google form link too.  Perfect. Just, I'm so sorry Vinay for cutting you and you know, doing this operation thing. So where do you see yourself Vinay in the next 12 months? Like what is your plan? How do you scale this?  yeah like main goal is 5 to 10 lakh per month and like i have everything planned like right now i was going through a course so there is this you might know like the alchemy of self or like self transcendence book so you plan out everything like which flat i want so i'm already planning to like buy a flat in pune and then  like maybe register my company in Dubai so but mostly focused on the work right now so yeah I have a lot of things planned main goal is like 5 to 10 lakh revenue per month perfect perfect amazing this is just amazing guys like so good  Perfect. I have paid for the Goldsmith. Great. So no problem. So amazing Vinay. Thanks a lot for sharing your wisdom with us and inspiring other people. Guys, if you are inspired from Vinay's journey from a tier 2 tier 3 city to making 2 lakh rupees per month right now and planning to make 10-15 lakh rupees, type in the word inspired Vinay in the chat box. Type in the word inspired Vinay in the chat box. Type in the word inspired Vinay in the chat box.  Wow, lots and lots of people were saying inspired Vinay in the chat box. Thank you guys. Thanks a lot. And just a second. Okay, perfect. Cool. Thanks, Vinay. Talk to you later. Bye bye. So now,  So guys, this is the gold or silver membership. If you have any operational related payment gateway issues or anything like that, you know, let us know we'll try and help you out. Give us 5-10 minutes. We'll just reply to every single one of you. So now how many of you are enrolling to silver type in the word silver and type in the word gold if you're enrolling into the gold one suggestion here is if you are a developer a visual designer digital marketer or a business owner take gold.  like I would say that because you have the best of all the courses reserved for the gold people and silver if you're a student who  Don't want any technical or development related questions, but then just wanted to see the how things work and you might not be able to effort gold only then takes it or else just take gold. Yes makes sense. Perfect. So now how freedom with AI can help you if you are a working professional safeguard your professional career get those fancy heights say goodbye to routine tasks and make more time and start the business or the side hustle that you always wanted.  If you are a working professional type in the word WP in the chat box type in the word WP in the chat box and wanted to you know, explore type in the word WP in the chat box. And if you are a student type in the word student and the whole country that you are from like student USA student UK student in Ireland student in your type it. So now if you are a student you are entering into one of the darkest times to get placed at a very good package at a good corporate company.  Securing a job with 2x better package even in the darkest times of the placement is possible because 1. You will have certificate. In fact, 4-5 certifications on AI will be available to you. 2. You could kickstart your entrepreneurial journey to make name in this AI era.  These are the two possibilities that could happen if you join with freedom with AI, you know, when you have certifications and we also make you do lots and lots of caption projects, lots of caption projects and certifications would give you a lot of benefits at least 25% more weightage than you know, your current resume. How many of you students and working persons agree with me type in the word agreed in the chat box.  Guys, in India, at least there is a concept of placements. In USA, there is no concept of placements only. You have to search for your own job. Lot of people in US and UK are struggling to find a good fit for the job. And it is very important for you to have that one or two things that every other student don't have.  If you are a digital marketer, run AI-powered marketing campaigns using AI for creating world-class copy, VSLs, LPs, landing pages, end-to-end Facebook and Google Ads campaign and much much more. If you are a digital marketer, type in the word digital marketer in the chat box. If you wish to learn a lot about AI, don't fall behind your peers and lose your clients revenue. Type in the word digital marketer if you wish.  to generate a good career out of AI. Amazing, if you're a freelancer, be the freelancer everyone wants to hire, boost your portfolio with AI skills, win lucrative projects, automate the mundane tasks and let the creativity flow.  And if you're a business owner, don't let your competitors take away your customers by using AI. Use AI to scale every part of your business, operations, marketing, sales, support, HR, R&D, a lot more. Type in the word business if you're a business owner. Type in the word business in the chat box if you're a business owner, guys. Business owners, you have more written on investment.  in this course than anyone else because you're already running a business generating a little like two lakh three lakh rupees in revenue investing 16 000 rupees or 202 dollars could be a game changer for you and finally what's happening in the job market due to ai right now according to linkedin ai to progress 65 job skill shift by 2030 in the next six years now query says prompt engineering ai have a lot of scope and demand in india  While a lot of people are losing jobs, prompt engineers are making hundreds and thousands of dollars on a monthly weekly basis by charging hundred plus dollars per hour as AI or prompt engineering consultants on Upwork. You could see a couple of screenshots here. And 36% of IIT Bombay, one of the best colleges in the whole country, India and top 10 or 20 among the whole world,  they were not able to place 36% of the people. Can you just imagine that if you are a private engineering college chances of you getting placed are 10% or less and if you're from IITs 40-50% of IIT people are not getting placed and 36% of IITians in Mumbai is not getting placed. If you're a student you have to think.  Private instituting colleges sees a 50 to 70% drop in placements in 2023-2024 year. India already is seeing a job scene shift early signs of disruption from AI according to the Economic Times. Financial Times says generative AI set to affect 300 million jobs across major economies.  And Andrew says Goldman Sachs predicts that 25% of jobs in the US and Europe could be automated by generative AI systems like RGPD, impacting 300 million full-time workers. This could lead to a decrease in the number of jobs available, as well as a decrease in wages of those who remain employed.  Some jobs that are most risky of automation is lawyers, translators, accountants, data entry clerks, financial analysts, administrative staff, software developers, customer service representatives. These are the top five ten, but I could say two or three hundred more fields are going to be impacted in the white collar space in the next two to three years because of AI.  And one of the very really cool testimonials that we got is from Kishan. I really hated the idea of giving Avinash any money for his course. Why should I pay? There is so much free stuff on YouTube. It made me mad. Then I saw his free webinar and it made me even madder because it was shockingly good. Way better than the free stuff. I paid for his course grumbling about it. And you know what? It was annoyingly excellent. It blew my mind.  You know, when you see something is done very faster, it annoys you. But it's excellent that you are getting to know about that annoying AI tool firsthand so that you could be the more productive employee than other people. Yes.  Yeah, we have no cost EMI available. In fact, for six months, you're all you're paying is 2767. But we also introduced 12 months EMI right now. You can also pay for 12 months. I would recommend paid for six months so that you'll not feel like paying for 12 months and all that. So paid for 12 months or six months, whatever it is, three to 12 months, we have 36912. We accept all major Indian credit cards.  and there is more but before I talk little more I'll just see if there are any issues from you guys for making payment I'll just see that I'll just see just a second okay perfect okay got it got it I guess  So guys if you want to use payment gateways like link and all that we also have a link and all that just give me one second. I'll give you those links also. Just a second guys, just a second.  Guys, how many of you think you learned a lot already? Type in the word yes in the chat box. Amazing, amazing. Amazing guys. Thank you. Thanks a lot.  So, if you wish to do this whole thing with any other link pay or apple pay or stuff like that, we have one more link which is gold and we are pasting silver link which is silver. I am just copying the silver link also.  but through Stripe it will come to you only so don't worry wherever you go you'll anyway reach us so don't worry about anything so these are the final links final links for Stripe try to make the payment through this you know I'll just copy this once again in a google doc and you know give it to you  Kunal kindly just shift those links and send all the links at once all the working links people once I just copied the links in the top so just replace those links with the other links that I just shared which are old links and it will be working perfectly for every single one no matter what kind of card they have you know anything.  Yep, perfect Kundan understood just replace gold and silver international links and send them with the new new k9 solutions links and all so now perfect guys we are not done yet we will have a 30 to 45 minutes interaction post 15 minutes of this give me 10-15 minutes at max and I'll give you I'll like a closing thoughts of a whole process  and then we can just talk how many of you want to talk to me directly verbally right now we'll give you mic access and you can speak type in the word yes if you really wish to talk to me right now just to do a Q&A type in the word yes in if that's something that you're waiting for give me 10-15 minutes we'll talk for 45 minutes approximately now there is more and now bonus number one 500 plus not so obvious prompt library that's bonus number one  The more people now type in the word be one. I will give you bonus number two bonus number three like that type in the word be one if you are super excited for this bonus. Let me explain what this bonus does. Basically. We not only teach you how to write prompts teach you prompting techniques and stuff prompting Frameworks and stuff will also give you 500. In fact right now we have 600 prompts readily available for you.  that you could literally pay literally copy and paste and edit a bit and get the results that you wanted. There are ready-made prompts that you could just copy paste no matter what kind of a work that you have with ChatGPT an article or a code or a debugging or you want something we covered almost all the categories 800 page talk.  for 500 prompts and 200 page talk for the other 200 prompts for technical non-technical business owners students everyone else we covered everything and you could get a ready-made prompts how many of you are excited for b1 type in the word b1 you will be able to do code executions blog posts landing pages emails ad copy social media content youtube scripts books goldiums all that absolutely free for everyone who enrolls into this membership right now  And point number two Kundan. Did you just send that replace links in the chat box type in the word? Yes Kundan if you are done that. Type in the word. Yes, perfect. Keep that keep sending those links to people so that people will be finding it. No Kundan. Don't just try send the stripe link send everything like replace those links of gold silver into our actual links and send it. Okay, so that way people will be able to understand. Okay.  Cool first. That's the first bonus worth five thousand rupees. And the second bonus is an entire library of not so obvious mean journey prompts. You know what we did is. There are certain words and prompts that you need to get the best out of image from to engineering like any like ChatGPT or, you know, mid journey or stable diffusion. You need certain words.  We got all the words in our e-book and we are giving it away for free as a bonus number two. If you are an image prompt engineer or a visual designer, this could be a game changer type in the word B2 in the chat box. If you think this could be a game changer as a visual designer type in the word B2. Amazing B3 AI tools Arsenal mastery, you know,  25% of prompt engineering is about AI tools. Isn't it? 25% of the AI tools is prompt engineering. AI tools like prompt engineering is AI tools.  So what we did is we research 2000 plus AI tools available in the market with our own money with months worth of testing and trailing and then finalize list of 350 AI tools that you could just get the gist of what needs to be done. Like no matter what kind of an AI tool you need for what kind of a book will have a curated list of AI tools that you could just you know, use.  at whatever the thing you need will give you the tool name in your category for your work requirement will also give you  the description of the tool pros of it, cons of it, cheaper alternatives, free alternatives and we have a database of 350 tried and tested curated AI tools. These are the not AI tools that we just saw randomly and putting it. No, we researched, we applied, we used, we paid and then showing it to you.  and then after 350 AI tools we realized there are like 20-30 most complex tools that we need a dedicated video walkthroughs on and we created that also. In this course you will get 350 curated AI tools for any use case that you have with AI plus  15 somewhere around 15-20 videos on how to use that particular AI tool with a particular use case in depth. Tap in the word B3 in the chat box if you think bone this could be a game changer for you. Tap in the word B3 in the chat box. Everyone need AI tools. In fact 25% of it could be AI tools. How many of you think  This course could make you a holistic prompt engineer. I've been a word. Yes in the chat box. If you think this could be making you a holistic prompt engineer. Yes. Amazing. Thank you. Perfect bonus number for AI monetization. All the knowledge is great. But what will you do with the knowledge if you can't implement and make money we figured out 30 business models that are trending in the world right now.  using AI and showed you how to do that particular business using AI with proper step-by-step process where we'll also show you how to write a book how to create a YouTube thumbnail. Not only will see but will also show a practical implementation process, you know, we discussed five business models in this particular, you know, in a master class have got discussing 13. We discussed it for five minutes each have a discussing 15 minutes each.  That's exactly that we did with AI monetization course. That's bonus number four. The more people type the word before in the chat box right now. I will give away more bonuses. I've been the world before if you are really really really excited.  So then someone is asking a tool link. Can you just copy paste all the links that we have including the webinar callback link type in all links so that people will be able to get every single link for India US certificate UPI and also all that at one area. Bonus number 4 bonus number 5 BTS of my companies where I will show what's happening in my companies that will  make you understand the process of starting maintaining and scaling the business. You can start the new company. You can start the new side as in you can also scale your current company. You will be able to do that. Yeah, how many of you are excited for this knowing what I am doing? And you know how to do it about? No links are working.  I think all the links are working if you see this link is actually working right now. It is loading a bit, but it will work. So just you know, this is working and International Razorpay, Indian Razorpay is also working and you know, I think all the links are working maybe some error from you and now we have one more thing that we could do guys.  Yeah, we have a callback form if you wish to talk to our counselor before making a payment because of the payment gateway issue only if you have a payment gateway issue will be able to accept it because almost 34 slots are already done. We only have six by tomorrow will not have anything maybe one or two duplicate payments can come in so that we will be able to refund those people and have two slots. But if you wish just fill in the webinar callback form link that we just submitted. Yeah.  Guys type in the word. Yes, if you have the problem with paying the payment right now type in the word. Yes, I would love to see how many people are actually facing the problem. Archana, did you use the recent links that we sent you right now type in the word? Yes, if you use the recent links that we sent you. Type in the word. Yes, Archana if you saw  Kunal just keep copy pasting those links it is hacked what do you mean hacked nothing is hacked like I guess freedomwithai.com I think it's working and nothing it's working everything fine guys so don't worry so yeah  Yung says link is not opening. Which link did you try Yung? Can you just try this link again? These are the links the final links that are final. Guess we are just pasting all our final working links you could use. Okay. Anyway, let's continue the process of showing you a few more things before we get on to  Yeah, if you are a UI designer, we have a bonus number 6 type in the word basics in the chat box. If you are excited for bonus number 6, we will show you how to do UI UX design using AI type in the word. Yes in the chat box. I've been the word UX in the chat box. If you're super super excited type in the word B6, whatever you feel like type something that will show us that you're super excited for B6 amazing bonus number 7.  weekly in a circle calls we have two calls one at one one one o'clock saturday and two indian standard time and uh two the second call is monday 6 30 a.m indian standard time people from us and canada could attend our monday 6 30 a.m indian standard and call because that will be your sunday night  Yeah, cool. We have a private Facebook private AI community and also a whatsapp community that you could join. Just imagine this. We have people from 40 countries in the world. We have few thousands of people in there. The network. Of the people who are extremely into AI is more valuable than the course content itself for few people. Like if you think B8 and B9 could be game changers for you type in the word game changer.  I've been the word game changer. Amazing. This is what you get in silver. All these courses bonuses plus EI for UX designer EI for developers EIA course EI for business owners and AI enhanced mastery. These are the extra five courses that are dedicated for the gold.  and bonus number 10 11 12 exclusively for gold type in the word gold. If you enroll for the gold or planning to enroll for the gold in the chat box. This bonus is only for you guys will give you Canva one-year membership to your personal email ID in the next seven working days after you joining into our membership, which is worth four thousand rupees absolutely for free. On top of Canva, you could choose one tool among in video. If you're a video editor or if you're a working professional or a business owner Microsoft 365,  14,000 worth of InVideo or Microsoft 365 worth 5000 rupees. You could pick any one tool. We're literally tied up with them. Did lot of deals with them as an educational company. We took bulk licenses with them and giving away with you giving away all those to you. We're paying some fraction of those original costs and sharing all that if you want to buy it will be the same. Imagine this.  18,000 rupees worth of AI tools for a 16,000 rupees worth of course for one year.  If you really now with all the 11 bonuses that we added on top of the initial course that you bought think this is a lifetime deal once in a lifetime deal type in the word lifetime in the chat box. If you really are not convinced that this is the best lifetime deal one could give with additional 11 bonuses on top of our main course type in the word lifetime. I'll see how many lifetime people how many lifetimes we got.  Amazing amazing great. So guys, we also have a you know, callback form. I just  You know, if you see the last link in the callback form in the in the link section is the call back during webinar form. If you wish to talk to our counselor just fill that form someone from our team will contact you tomorrow on WhatsApp email somewhere and that way we could do continue the journey. If you have any payment gateway issues type in the word. Yes in the chat box. If you already filled the form.  If you are someone who is trying to enroll but had any kind of trouble in you know, doing it type in the word. Yes in the chat box done. If you are trying to do the form-filling right now type in the word mean the chat box. Are you filling the form right now? And this is only for the people who want to talk to us regarding enrollment. Nothing else like, you know, if you have any doubt if you have any, you know, payment gate ratios one term here we have to think is  We will be able to give the slot if we have the slot. There are 38 slots. We are done. We have two more slots. And if you luckily have one more slots, you will get it. If not, we might not guarantee. Perfect. Cool. So now couldn't add, you know, what we'll do is that's it.  Why did you decide to invest in freedom with AI? What we'll do is right now. We'll lower all the hands of the people that raise their hands. You know, if you already paid type in the word done in the chat box and raise your hand right now. We'll be if you wish to talk to us type in the word type in the word done in the chat box and raise your hand. You should do both that will verify and add 5 to 10 members so that we could have an interactive session all the Q and A's, you know, we could just give you all the things you could share your experience  and show something, you know, say something about yourself and about our masterclass right now. Also, you will get certificate and these are all the courses bonuses that you're going to get if you're a gold member and this is gold and this is silver. Think about this. You're paying approximately 16,600 rupees, which is almost 1350 rupees per month or 45 rupees per day.  1300 rupees is like literally 15 to 18 dollars per month. You don't decently get a meal in USA for this price in a decent hotel or a restaurant. And in India, it's almost the same.  If you go out for a restaurant, you spend 1500 rupees in India. Same with US. And you can't get even a cup of coffee at half a dollar in USA, UK. And in India, you can at least get a cup of coffee. That's it. All you're paying is 45 rupees or half a dollar per day for the next 12 months.  on yourself to protect your career, right? So what else do you need? Do you think you could success is cheaper than this? Like do you think you could get something like this? Much cheaper than this of that like how many of you think this analogy is making sense type in the word ms in the chat box.  Right? It's half a dollar guys. What do you get for half a dollar couldn't I made you co-host now, you will be able to add half a dollar. That is something that we're talking about and we are rated 4.9 on Trust pilot. Now, we'll show you how our Trust pilot reviews work.  You know, we got 343 people giving us an average rating of 4.9 from almost 2-3 thousand people that enrolled, 10% gave us 4.9. You go to any IT company in the whole country, India, 99% of the company, only top, hardly you will find 10 IT companies in the whole world have this kind of rating. I can assure you that.  And we are one of, luckily, we are one among those companies that are rated 4.9. Like you see these people, this is a top-notch learning center, you know, for AI concepts. We can create our own route map for many business ideas. The team was incredibly supportive, guiding us to the implementation process and ensuring that we're comfortable with the new technology.  can generate easy money by completing this all modules of AI tools. This is the world's best mentor like Agnes Lila Shankar. I've worked as a lead developer on one of the companies resigned one year back due to personal problems. I have joined this course two months back only and gone through three models as of now.  15% completed gone got confidence with the course on how to use AI like botpress blah blah blah and I have developed sample chart bots integrated blah blah blah. So this is what Kiran Kumar says, you know, Ravi says I'm following Avinash on Instagram based on his readings on AI got enrolled for masterclass.  During the masterclass, I was not sure about how AI tools will help me, but having a discussion with Avinash during the Q&A session, it felt like it was going to help me a lot. Today, I joined the call again to clarify the same with him. His energy is contagious. You know, you go read our reviews. It will take you one whole day to complete all the things with us. Like I saw your interview on YouTube. I learned many things from the webinar, life-changing masterclass, AI hand-holding, blah blah blah blah blah blah.  Guys, how many of you think Trust Pilot Reviews is something that convinced you to get into it right now? Type in the word ME in the chat box if this Trust Pilot Reviews totally convinced you to get your Freedom With Air membership. Type in the word ME. Sushmita says ME. Nageshwar Rao says ME. Satya Narayana says ME.  Amazing. Great. So cool. That's it. I can't say anything more about my product than this. I'm almost borderline salesperson right now, pitching a lot. But then if I don't trust my own product and pitch to help hundreds of people in the world, who will do it for me? I have to do it, right? But not anymore. That's it from my end. If all this did was safeguard your future in this AI era in the next few months, would that be worth it?  If all this did was finally make you 3x more income and get your financial freedom that you always wanted, would that be worth it? If all this did was help you at least 5 to 10x more productive and spend time with your family, would that be worth it? Yes. Yeah, frequently asked questions. You could be non-technical, not fluent in English, just started your career. You could be  recently laid off you could be student you could be housewife with 10 years gap or a sabbatical leave with one year gap no matter who you are. This course will give you a roadmap to enhance your career in the world of AI. I'm sure about it. Do not share the links again. And we also give you 20% commission. It's not 25. It's 20 a small mistake on the slide. A lot of people  come join refer their friends and get a referral commission of 25 percent 20 percent and they join they'll make five six people join and they get all your money all their money back.  Yeah, they love the course so much that it's like they say it's brag worthy. They just brag about us a lot and get all their friends and family also get to onboard with us and we give a 20% commission for the same referral bonus for the same and I want to know right now. Are you serious about safeguarding your future? And if you didn't enroll right now and but trying to make the payment right now type in the word number one type in the number one in the chat box type in number one in the chat box. If you're trying to make the payment right now and who is if you're serious about safeguarding your future.  Amazing the next 40 minutes or 30 minutes. We'll talk with people. You know, let's start with Maliya Varapu. Hi Maliya Varapu. You can turn on your mic and you can speak. Okay, let's go with the next person who is VV Satyanarayana. Hi VV Satyanarayana. Hi, good evening Yavraj. This is VVS here from Noida. Actually, I am from Vishakhapatnam. But however, I got inspired you through following through the Instagram.  But, you know, I have been using ChatGPT for quite a while. Though I am at age of 52, I am trying my best to, you know, how does it can influence my job. But I had different, I am in design environment at present, but I am really a construction industry person and I am core into the construction management. So, I am looking at lot of venues. If at all I sign up from the current position, that what way this AI can help me  a while coming back to my native so how does I can make better use of it both in terms of for designs and as well as the project management because I am also now MBA in project management so could you throw a light on the how does it can.  So end of the day, you could do both. You could come be in the design field or, you know, or this field, you could learn mid-journey, ChatGPT and all that. And you will be able to, you know, get the best out of your design industry. You could be the AI manager that people want. Or in the worst case, you could be the designer who is more productive.  Option number one, be the designer who is more productive in a company by introducing AI tools in your workflow. You'll find all the AI tools that you need in our membership, number one. Number two, what you could do is you could literally, you know,  change your industry and go to any industry where your primary experience will be prompt engineering and secondary experience will be in design. That could be point number two or point number three. You could use prompt engineering to become a better project manager by using chat GPT by managing people setting up systems and processes to streamline your processes and know  understand how systems work and how to communicate, how to give the deadlines, create proposals, make people work, all that could be also done with AI tools. So, these are the three options that you have, we research in our end. Yeah, but we can, can we, you know, we can feed the data to check the health of the projects using AI tools? Yes, we can. There are a lot of things that you could do there. Okay. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you.  Thanks a lot. And let's go with Balakrishna. Hi Balakrishna. You can turn on your mic and we can speak. Hi Avinash. How are you doing? I'm doing good Balakrishna. Thanks. Yeah. So actually I got laid off like couple of months ago and I'm still looking for the job. And I actually stay in Canada, but I'm here in Hyderabad right now.  So I will be moving back to Canada. I'm also a resident there and I'm doing my job trials from here, from Hyderabad. Once I feel like I got an opportunity, then I'm planning on moving back to Canada. So I'm wondering like, you know, how exactly do I, I'm actually, I used to work as a test engineer, automobile test engineer, like automation test engineer.  And right now I'm looking as a business analyst roles and either the CRM also. I'm actually, I also have a good knowledge on the Salesforce.  So Salesforce admin, basically, I can say. So I'm looking for jobs in like IT right now. So I was wondering, like, how do I use these resources and a very good opportunity in the IT and also, as you said, that we can do a side hustle with this. I wanted to initiate a small side hustle first. And when I feel confident, like, you know, yes, I can make this work out in a big scale, then I'm planning on  giving my full concentration on the business only. So my final goal is in a couple of years I need to own my own business and move back to India completely so that I can be with my family.  Perfect. That's a good strategy. Like, you know, firstly, you have two options, you enhance the weightage of your resume to get a better job in Canada by mentioning about generative AI certifications plus caption projects that that you are going to do when you enroll with this option number one, but to also concentrate on the side results that you could build while doing this. And once your side results are on point, like you could choose to be investing more in business or maybe  enhancing your career through your job, you could do it. And for this, I do need your help regarding this, your team help or your help like for the mentoring, for the side hustles, like how can I get into that?  So, well, this can be discussed once I'm done with the courses because I do know that I've bought the gold membership. So, it does give us like a business ideas or like, you know, how can we use these tools and everything. So, I'm hoping like in  Like, in a couple of months, in three, four months when I'm done with the course and when I need help in getting, like, brainstorming the ideas of how exactly this can work, I can ask for your guidance. Yes. That's what I was wondering, like, how can we reach at that point of time?  Oh, sure. Like first we have an onboarding call. We'll give you a personalized experience of how to do things and roadmap and all that to you. Kunal will be getting an onboarding call with your person one-on-one for 15-30 minutes. And then from there, once you're done with an onboarding call, we'll start the whole process. Even when you have doubts, you can always reach out to Kunal. He will be your point of contact. And we also have community managers on top of Kunal. So you can reach out to any one of them and get all your questions answered. Yeah, sure. That sounds great, Avinash. Thank you so much.  Thank you. Thanks a lot. And guys, the format to talk here right now is just share your experience of this masterclass. Share where are you from? What do you do? And if you have any question, that's the fourth one. Perfect. Let's keep it in a proper format that will just be having good experience with other people. Let's go with Orlinda Pinto. Hi, Orlinda Pinto. Hi, Avinash. Hey, how are you? I'm good. How are you?  Good. Thank you so much for, you know, letting me chat with you for a little bit. So, you know, just my feedback in general about the entire webinar. I think it was absolutely mind blowing. It's great to just hear about like the different strategies and techniques.  I've been dabbling with chat GPD for a while on my own, but never truly to the extent that, you know, I mean, today I was blown away in terms of like what I can do. So, you know, thank you so much for all the information that you collated for us and shared. And, you know, also,  appreciate you sharing your story, your personal story, your personal journey in terms of, you know, what you went through and how you kind of emerged from it. So very, very inspiring.  So thank you for sharing that. And just a couple of questions. I think I'm going to piggyback off what the person before me spoke. And it seems like a lot of it was answered. But what I wanted to, from my perspective, you know, I'm currently in the US. I work for one of the top 10 banks in the world. I am in the product management space. Specifically, I've pivoted into the AI side of things.  So yes, I've already purchased the gold membership, so I've pivoted into the AI side of things. So I wanted to learn more about like just different techniques and applicability so I can kind of A, use the skill set to kind of explore more use cases from a product management perspective within my organization. And B, the bigger goal is I want to learn from you and the entire team and just all of the content that you've put together and Q&A and so forth.  How can I use it to kind of move into, you know, into obtaining financial freedom to kind of start my own business, right? YouTube monetization, Etsy, things that you talked about today, just brilliant ideas. And I, you know, even if it's in a pilot stage, I want to get the ball rolling on those aspects. So at least I can, at some point, you know, kind of have the choice to wrap up my job just like the person before.  and kind of, you know, focus on my family, my kid and be able to do, you know, a little bit like just have a business or focus on like my income streams, you know, alternate income streams. I don't want it to be limited to one. I want it to be limited to multiple things. So are you guys going to be helping us through all of that as well?  The first thing you can do as a project manager at a financial bank is to cover a lot of front-end techniques that will help you to streamline the process, automate a lot of tasks, write better emails,  and communicate with the people, do the decision making that you have to decide. You know, you could brainstorm your ideas with ChatGPT in a certain way. The way ChatGPT will act as like different roles to give different perspectives with different mindsets. And you could just pick a one. You could even ask ChatGPT to argue between different perspectives inside ChatGPT itself, which is called Tree of Thought prompting, which we covered. And yeah, the things that you could use like this to enhance your career as a project manager, number one.  Number two to make little more money as a side hustle and you know kind of get into the side hustle stage by spending a lot of time with your friends and family so yes that is definitely possible like you saw Vinay a 20 year old Indian didn't even complete you know  you know, engineering started his journey of making money online. You could also choose one among 30 businesses that we suggest and continue the journey of your AI as a side hustle also through those modules so that you could start making money from AI. And while you're attempting to do this, you might have a lot of confusions, roadblocks for which we have community managers, support staff, and success managers to help you out.  Great so would you guys also be providing those like just different ideas like hey you know YouTube monetization just one of it right like you know Fiverr you talked about some freelancing. We have a course called AI monetization just for that.  Right, okay. So, okay, so we just randomly pick the topics of what we are interested in and kind of look at it because, you know, sometimes there can be so much content, it can be overwhelming and not everything's applicable. And you can just get into like this analysis paralysis kind of phase where you're just consuming content and not taking any action, right?  So I want to be able to execute, begin executing, even if it's small, uh, sizable, uh, you know, goals that I set and I'm, and, and I'm able to like measurably make some, you know, execute something rather than just consuming courses. Like there's tons of stuff on Udemy and whatnot, you know, I mean, I study it, I get it done.  Get my certification and then three months down the line I forget it. I do. I'm being very honest because you're just like bombarded with so much information everywhere. So I really want this to be. I'm hoping that this will be interactive to the point where I can at least get the wheels in motion, you know.  So then I can then take on from that on rather than it just being like courses and courses and courses and I'm just like overwhelmed with courses and then it's like done, you know. Yes, that's where we come in. We are totally different than your self-paced. We have self-paced life classes.  community support, capstone projects will not only make you study, but also implement things that we are teaching by giving you all that, you know, we have a lot of gamification also. We have an entire social media app that we build for our community that kind of gamifies the whole thing.  So, we will give you points for watching videos, maintaining your speed, you know, helping others in the community. We have point systems for everything. So, this will gamify and make you feel like, okay, I am achieving something for the things that I am doing. Okay, let me achieve 100 more points today. Let me attend the live class because that is 100 points. So, this is how the gamification that we do inside. So, this way you will be like a kid again, you know.  figuring out points and stuff. So we'll make you implement things as much as we can. But we can't help you do things, but as much as we can, we'll make you implement things. Okay. Makes sense. All right. Sounds good. Thank you. Thank you, Avinash. Appreciate you giving me the chance to speak with you. And of course, even for me, the end goal is I want to move back to Mumbai, India at some point. I've been here for like 20 some odd years. It's great. It's not bad. It's just  I do, I kind of feel like I'm missing out the best of my life, you know? Yeah. So I do want to make that pivot, which is why I kind of want to transition into, you know, just kind of having a certain few things on autopilot in terms of revenue streams. It doesn't have to, it doesn't have to be outrageous either, but at least something that I can, I can keep, you know, myself like comfortably afloat and move to move back to India, you know? So that's, that's the end goal. Yeah. Okay. Perfect. Thank you so much.  Thank you. And let's talk with Samant. Hi, Samant. Hi, Abhinav. Hi, Samant. How are you? Thank you for allowing me to speak for a while. I'm a non-IT guy. I work for Amazon. I stay in Hyderabad. We work for North America, but we support from Hyderabad. So it's regarding the transportation specialist.  So really, it's a very good event. I didn't believe that I'm here for like four hours. We started at 7.30 and we couldn't move away from the laptop. It's really a great session. I'm looking forward and I think it's just the beginning. I don't know how to start and how to move on but  Practically I could see that it could be definitely a winning game or a good start up for us and I hopefully a few who already spoke before  I can understand like what is the purpose of it and how it's going to be, how it's going to be life changing. I believe it is very positive and thank you for the session and I've seen you on a YouTube with some motivational speaker or someone. So I just signed up and thank you. Yeah, I'm looking forward. I don't know how to like, you know, move, move, move further, but as you just guide us, we'll keep on following. Perfect. Thank you.  Yeah, so for all the people who need who want the recording of the session will be available in our back end. So there is learning management system that you'll all get access to in which you'll have masterclass bonus as a whole thing in which you can watch the recording of this particular masterclass. Perfect. Good. Let's go with P Indra. Hi Indra. Indra you can turn on your mic and speak. I think Indra is busy. Let's go with. Hi. Hi Indra.  Hello. Hi. I'm Indra. Uh, students right now studying in Tharnavati University of Gujarat. I just use this chat GBT, uh, Bing, BARD or other AI tool just to generate images. But I really don't know that such great stuff we can do by using AI. Only in this webinar, I came to know that that is really helpful, I guess.  But as a student, I want to know more about how this AI will help for us as students. Like per day, if we spend two to three hours in a day for learning what your course tells us, we can really not only generating about the money, but gaining the knowledge a lot. How far we can gain the knowledge without sometimes without doing the coding also.  Right now, I'm focusing my career on data scientists, but still rather than focusing on data scientists, if I am feeling like if I focus on your course and curriculum, I may be more richer than that. I started feeling that. So definitely there's a possibility of a non-technical prompt engineering making more money, a technical prompt engineer, because someone who builds the, there will be a situation where someone who builds the car  you know someone who drives the car is more richer than someone who builds the car right so data scientists will build the car and someone who drives the car will be the non-technical prompt engineers and the people that could be the scenario in the future yes I agree with you but yeah data science is no less of an industry it could be the last industry that could be disrupted with AI frankly so you what you're doing is good so now for you as a student you could do two things okay  enhance your data science learning using AI, you could be having super complicated complex concepts. I'm sure data scientists with NLP specialization or computer vision specialization, you get a lot of complex topics. You could use ChatGPT to get the best explanation as easy as a 20-year-old or 18-year-old would understand. That's something you could do, number one. Number two, yes, you could make money even as a student because  that you know who is the person I just forgot his name Vinay. Vinay is like you, a 20 year old guy from Pune did it. You can also do that. Number two. Number three, adding generative AI capstone projects and certifications in your resume gives you 25% more experience. You could say you have data science projects and data science things, but on top of data science, if you could also add generative AI stuff, you'll also have little more, you know, importance and little more weightage in your placements.  These are the three, four, five things that I could think of when it comes to you. Sir, one last problem, please. Sir, as a student right now, I don't have a credit card. I only have a debit card.  I really wanna join but still if I say my parents regarding about this course they will say shit this stuff is they don't understand only about the AI sometimes to be frank they don't have the knowledge about AI they will say nothing you can do just leave it but I wanna gain this course so if possible somehow can you help me I can pay through EMI I can do that if possible please consult my request sir that will be really grateful to me I can  Yeah, I got it. So, we get to the sequence. Yeah, fill the form link. Yeah, I have already filled it. Perfect. Someone will call you and see what request we could do.  Thanks a lot. No problem. Thanks Indra. So guys, if you want to have a call back from any of our mentors or any of our counselors, fill the form that I just sent and you know, we don't have a lot of slots for that also. We can't call 100 people, 200 people.  in a given day or two. So we have two slots both for gold membership silver membership is done. Don't enter into silver membership right now. We have two gold slots and to call back during webinar slots. If you are interested in something just be type in the word. Yes in the chat box. If you're considering to make the payment right now type in the word. Yes, because we need to see how many people are paying and accordingly we could accommodate how many of a people type in the word. Yes in the chat box. If you're trying to make the payment right now.  Amazing. We got Indu saying yes, Kiran saying yes, Aryan saying yes and Ashok saying yes. Amazing. Cool. Let's see how Vaibhav Gaitwad saying yes. Cool. Let's go. Let's talk with Shivakumar. Hi Shivakumar. Shivakumar, you can turn on your mic and talk. Or we can go with Malik B. Hi Malik.  You can turn on your mic and talk, Malik. Hello. Hi, Malik. Hi. Yeah, it was a nice session. Just a couple of questions. I'm an IT consultant. I'm working in UK. Due to layoffs, I lost my job a couple of months ago.  Currently I'm trying to learn some of the AI courses like I have gone through your videos and other things. So today's session was also very useful. Just want to know that. So what is the like you have mentioned about the prompt engineering and other things like so what is the you know.  opportunities in the UK market and any idea regarding that, how to build up the CV and other things. It means how it will be like once I do the course, like how it will be, any idea?  yeah so so if you are a consultant you can also consult people on non-technical prompt engineering and help them establish systems and processes using AI so you could be the prompt engineering consultant on freelancing websites to start with immediately because you also have that consulting uh experience in past number one number two you could also get a job a little faster in UK market maybe in other markets also  When you say that you are a generative AI expert, certified expert, plus you also did a lot of caption projects and stuff. So you will be valued more at an organization than someone who don't have AI expertise. So these are the two things that you could do immediately to, you know, up, up, fasten your career. Okay, one is generative AI and another one is prompt engineering, you mentioned? Yes, yes.  Okay, that's good. Thanks a lot, Avinash. No problem. Thank you, Malik. And let's go with Rajkumar. Hi, Rajkumar. Okay, cool. Let's go with Varun. Hi, Varun. Be Arun or Varun, I'm not sure. Hi. Thank you. This is Varun Shah from Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.  Anyway, thank you. You are talking many hours and I am astonished how you get all this capacity to talk hours after hours. Thank you very much.  I actually came here and I already signed up for the gold membership, but just randomly. So I work basically in the construction industry and I work for the planning and schedule and we have some tools using. So nowadays many things are converted to AI and I believe construction is one of the industry which are lagging in using the AI.  So my first target is to understand, to dig into the AI systems and all these things, and then I will try to connect with the tools currently we are using in the construction industry so possibly we can do that.  But I have a request since we live in the most of them are many of them are from North America. So your classes schedule should be matched with our time. This is one thing because we prefer in the weekends or in the evenings.  where during your morning is our working time, sometimes our night time, right? So your night time is our working time. So please consider this. Yeah, we have the classes. The second thing actually drives me, my son had just, I have a son and he's just completing his graduation and looking for a job in the data science industry. So I have a plan to, once upon a time, I'll plan to talk with him.  and whether I can introduce him with you so he can understand better. This is in the near future, I have a plan. So that's all. I do not want to take more time and with and over the progress of the course, I will be interested to talk with you more.  Thank you very much. No problem. So, we have one live class for international people, one for Indian people. So, we have two live classes. One happening Monday 6.30 a.m. Indian Standard Time, which will be Sunday 8.30 p.m. for you. So, I think for two hours, I think one hour, one and a half hour you can manage on Sunday evening. And for EST and IST also, for EST and PST also the same. So, yeah, we will have a class live for your time zone.  Thank you very much. Hi Raghavendra KP. Hi Avinash. I am Raghavendra from Bangalore. Bangalore, Karnataka. The session was very nice and majorly I liked in this one is like bots and how the learnings it will be and it will be like helpful for most of the IT sector.  by creating the boards of our own it will be like improve ourself and even in the companies like any other MNC companies or any other companies it will help them like calling activity and even so many tasks can be automated but how we can do  in because in companies like any companies, we don't have access right how we can implement of our own automation. No problem to two ways number one create fiber and up work profiles where companies will be searching for people like you and come and you know, give you the gigs or you can apply to the companies that you could build chatbot services on number one number two.  write an email like go to LinkedIn write a LinkedIn message. You can also find emails of the people who are funded on online and also LinkedIn message them connect with them have an organic conversation understand what their needs and wants are and then go pitch your services get on a call with zoom with them on a zoom explain why you are the best how you are certified how many caption projects you did and just give a very good guarantee all that.  and then close them. So the two ways that you could get international clients and close them. Okay. Thank you. Cool. No problem. Hi Chitti Sujana. Hi. Sujana if you wish to talk you can turn on your mic and talk to me. It seems like she's a little busy and let's go with Subbu. Hi Subbu. M Subbu. You can turn on your mic Subbu.  Hi, can you hear me? Yes. Thank you. Thank you bro for the session. I just want to say thank you and yeah, I paid it and yeah, looking forward to the course. Yeah, thank you. Thank you so much. Doing good work. Yeah, thank you. Let's go with Sandeesh. Hi Sandeesh. Okay, Sandeesh seems a little busy. You can turn on your mic Sandeesh or let's go with Vamsi Krishna. Hi Vamsi.  Sandesh, Vamsi, Vidya, whoever turns on their mics and talk, we can have a call. Hi, this is Vidya. So Avinash Garu, congratulations, a very good course. My full name is Vidya Mahankali. Mahankali is my last name. Calling from Fremont, California. I'm a Java developer here in the authentication team in our cloud.  company and I am interested in this so much information online on chat GPT and AI and basically it is being bombarded as somebody pointed out earlier. I wanted something very concise and focused on how you can learn these skills and actually apply them  to whatever it is you want to do. I am on the side, I am very fond of telling stories. So I want to maybe perhaps go into writing a book or get on YouTube. I am not really sure. Just thought it is interesting to get into a course which will capture quickly actionable tasks that you can  perform to go from not knowing anything to actually have something tangible at the end of just looking forward to that. The one question I had was what is the format of the class place? I mean the inner circle. What is what should we expect there? Is it like a free form class or is there like somebody who's instructing you on topics? How does that flow?  Okay, so you all the concepts that are like in the market for 1 year, 2 years or all the basics and the fundamentals will be covered. Yeah, all the basics and fundamentals will be covered by the self-paced recorded course. You'll watch it at your own time, maybe 2 hours, 1 hour a day or a 4-5 hours on a weekend. You will spend and complete the courses there. And Inner Circle course is where some expert or mentor comes in and do two things. Number one,  Talks to you about the new and trending topic. Recently, Meta released Meta, you know, GPT. We talked about that. Samsung released Samsung AI mobile phone. We literally bought a phone and talked about Samsung AI and how it is something that you could do all the AI features in your mobile phone. Auto GPT came and we're talking about that. Anything that is very recent in the AI advancements, we do maximum in a week. We do talk about that particular concept that has very newly available in the market.  That's number one possibility. Number two, advanced concepts. Number three, Q&A for at least half an hour to 45 minutes like this. You'll directly talk to mentor, give the roadblockers, or if you have any questions, suggestions, you could literally talk to the mentor directly like this, like a one-on-one call and get it started. Three things.  1 out of 1 month like we have 4 calls right per month. 1 call will be directly by me where we will not discuss any new topics and only concentrate on clearing all your road blockers questions and give you a road map for the future. I personally get like 100 people in this inner circle calls approximately. 50 people might have questions. You will learn a lot from other people's questions than your questions. So we will do that deep Q&A once in a while.  This is not really one-on-one. I mean, we have like 40 people on the call, so that's fine. And so the self-paced coursework, do those come as a bundle at the beginning or is that sent on a periodic basis? No, it is bundled. I think you have already gotten an email in which you will find all the courses accessed in LMS.  Okay, I see. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Bye. Thanks a lot. Bye. Let's go with Indra. Yeah, whoever I didn't speak just turn on the mic and then you can ask the question.  Okay, did I speak with everyone in the panelists? My love, Aruppu, if you want to talk, you can talk. And we have Bansi Sandeep, we didn't talk. Have you noticed a good question, Orlando? Yes, sorry. Do we just log into the LMS and see all of those nine, 10 bonus access there? Or is that going to come in separate emails as well? You'll get emails.  Like, you will have the bonus access immediately. Got it. And is this possible just for you to pull up that? I just wanted to take a quick screenshot of it for my own reference. The last couple of slides where you were sharing the bonus content, just so I can, you know, I have something to go back and reference it. Cool, cool. Yeah. Thank you.  I have this, but you had something with all those bonus listed like bonus 1, bonus 2. Yeah, these are the bonuses if you see, like you know, including bonuses and real, these are the whole course material that you get. Oh, okay, okay, got it, okay. Anyone have any questions? Just turn on the mic and speak. No problem.  Perfect guys, perfect. I think that's amazing. Cool. I hope we had a great Q&A. And cool. That's it for this masterclass. I hope you all had a great experience. You know, see you tomorrow. It's not see you tomorrow. For the people who enrolled, we'll meet again on Monday. And for all of them, until next time. Bye bye, guys. Thanks a lot. Bye. One last question. Do we get that recorded session for today's?  Yes. Yeah, not today's, but the recent masterclass last three, four weeks may one masterclass will be already uploaded in your LMS. Whenever I finally gave the best experience, we'll add the best possible masterclass. And do we receive that in an email or email? For the people who enroll in Gold or Silver, not for everyone. Okay. Yeah. Got it. Yeah. I'm a Gold member, so I'm expecting so. Yeah. Pranush, finally, just I have a long question.  You know, I have been listening to all the people in the community and each has got a from a different backgrounds, you know, how do you come a fledge each and address the each and individuals requirements the way you take walk through this course. Yes, I'd love to hear from you. Yeah, so the skill of learning ChatGPT reminds the same irrespective of your career, right? We'll show you how to fish the way you fish.  and we you have to do it right like what we will say is hey this is like prompt engineering this is the prompt format this is the prompting technique this is how you talk to them these are if you're a like say if you are uh having something like this this is how you code this you do this we'll share you all the things  Some tips will be applicable for some people and whatever is applicable. You'll just catch it and then use it on top of it. We have some specialized courses for developers project managers, you know, all these people have some specialized videos on there where you could get a specific thing wherever we feel a specialized course is not necessary a simple, you know, explanation of prompting techniques is more than enough. We didn't have a course but wherever we feel the dedicated thing is needed. We'll do that.  Imagine Google search. Okay, you're going to Google. No matter who you are the way you use Google the techniques you use to get the video or the image or article that you want remains almost the same ChatGPT like that.  Like although I don't want to compare things, but you know, prompt engineering is much beyond what Google search does, but I'm just giving you some random example to just connect dots. We'll give you the way, we'll give you the process, and you take it and implement it in your career. Because it's one app that you all have to master by end of this one year. Okay. Avinash? Sorry, thank you.  Just quick question, what about like, you know, I mean, yes, this course will have access for one year. I understand we may not have like ongoing support and whatnot, but what about, you know, just being able to go back and maybe reference a certain course that you might want to look at? Or you, you know, you didn't say do a certain business idea now, but you want to look at that course a little later on. Do we have like some sort of lifetime access to just the course content itself?  Unfortunately not the reason is we have to constantly update and we have to pay for the resources that we have to cover to update the course content. What's available right now might not be even available only because if that doesn't make sense. So we have to constantly update and even evolve and add new things because every new week there is something sensational happening in the world of AI.  So we have to constantly have the mentors recording more and more videos to cover up those costs. It's subscription like Netflix like three months later. If you want to watch a movie, you don't have subscription just renew it something like that, but it's an yearly membership. Okay, so but then you don't offer, you know, obviously you're not going to update the entire course content end-to-end right like there might be certain, you know, like and it's added and so forth.  Don't just add every movie. Let's not delete and add. So, do you not offer them something subsidized in that case for, you know, ongoing members who want to continue? Think about it. I mean, it's something to take back to the table and then bring it back, you know, again to the audience. Thank you. No problem.  Thanks for the idea here. And PPTs and docs are downloadable though, not the videos. But yeah, we'll just literally think about it in our next meeting with the team and we'll get back to you on this in a couple of months once we have a decision. Anything else, guys? Cool? Yeah, thank you so much for the great session. Thanks so much. Yeah, I'll have it. Bye-bye.  Bye. Bye guys. Bye. Bye. Thank you. Bye guys. Bye. Bye.



Q&A FOR MASTERCLASS AND PEOPLE WHO WANTS TO PURCHASE 


Our Website:: Freedomwithai.com

Greeting message : Hello everyone,


This is (Your name) answering your questions here.
It's great to be here, and I'm hopeful that I'll be able to address as many questions as possible.

Where is Avinash and why is he not here yet(during introduction) 

Avinash will be joining shortly.

Will you be providing any recording for the masterclass?(Due to network connection or due to some other work)


Regrettably, we're unable to share the webinar recording at this time. However, we encourage you to consider joining the masterclass next time.Please refer to our website after the completion of this masterclass to know the details about the next masterclass date and time.

Unable to see the video or it is not audible?

Please check your internet connection and  make sure it is stable!

Why are we seeing our own messages and unable to see other people messages?

There will likely be numerous spam messages that could disrupt your learning experience during the webinar.Hope you can understand why we cannot do that!!

Why is this a free masterclass and what do you gain from it?

We would like to educate as many people as possible on prompt engineering and AI and Please continue watching till the end to get a certificate and details about what we are offering if you are interested in our membership!



Can you share linkedin and insta asccounts of Avinash so that we can tag and get our bonuses?

Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/avinash-mada/

  Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/meetavinash/?hl=en

Please be aware that if you've posted or tagged anything related to the masterclass or Avinash, our team will review it and send you the bonuses within the next 2-3 days

Is this PPT showcasing on the screen done with AI?

while we can enhance the presentation with various flashy tools, it's important to ensure clarity and avoid confusion among the audience. Our goal is to educate as many people as possible, so it's crucial that everyone can easily understand the content being presented.

Why is my question not being answered?
We would like apologize for the inconvenience please share again, as it is lost in the lot of messages that are incoming.

When do I get the form to fill to get the certificate for participation?

Please be aware that it's necessary for you to remain until the conclusion of the masterclass in order to complete the form, which is essential for receiving certification and any bonuses from our side.
After taking the course will you be providing any certification from your end and is it from your organisation?

Yes,we do provide AI expert and chatgpt  certification on the name of our organisation and it will definitely add lot of weight to your resume and helps you out.
How long is this webinar ?

3 Hours



Towards the end

Please be advised that you will receive your certificate and bonuses valued at 15000 to your registered email within 24-48 hours. We appreciate your contribution to making this webinar a tremendous success. Thank you.
We extend our sincere gratitude to everyone for contributing to the success of this session. Thank you all for your participation and engagement.
Remember, AI isnt a threatits a tool that enhances your capabilities. Embrace it, learn, and continue to be a valuable asset in the evolving landscape!



Payment Links and certificate form



cashfree (india) - No Cost EMI with major CCs

Gold - https://payments.cashfree.com/forms/freedomwithaigold

Silver - https://payments.cashfree.com/forms/freedomwithaisilver


Stripe 2 - (international) 


Gold - https://buy.stripe.com/14k6rcaGRekW1fG8wx

Silver - https://buy.stripe.com/6oEbLwdT30u64rSfZ0

UPI 1: fwai@axl


Certificate - https://freedomwithai.com/participation-certificate


Share this form link after Avinash mentions about it towards the end of the masterclass and if people mentioning about payment failure and if they want to talk to our counsellors before enrolling.

Callback (During Webinar) - https://freedomwithai.com/callback-webinar







1. What is artificial intelligence?

Artifcial intelligence (AI) refers to the development of computer systems that can perform tasks that typically require human intelligence, such as visual perception, speech recognition, decision-making, and language translation. It is best described as a particularly advanced algorithm. 

2. Why should we take your course among others?

Our course has a  structured learning path, guiding students from foundational

concepts to advanced topics, ensuring a thorough understanding of AI principles.

Our course includes practical hands-on projects and exercises that allow students to

apply their knowledge in real-world scenarios, enhancing their practical skills and

problem-solving abilities.

Our course is taught by AI experts or instructors with extensive experience in the field, providing valuable insights, tips, and best practices based on their industry expertise and providing clear, relatable examples that make complex concepts easy to understand. 

Our course covers the latest advancements and trends in artifcial intelligence, ensuring that students learn relevant and up-to-date information that is applicable in today's rapidly evolving AI landscape.

Our course provides access to a supportive community of fellow learners, as well as forums, discussion boards, or mentorship opportunities, fostering collaboration, networking, and continued learning.

Our course offers personalized learning experiences, such as adaptive learning algorithms, individualized feedback, or tailored recommendations, catering to the unique needs and preferences of each student.

3. When are the live Q&A sessions scheduled, and how do I join them?

The Inner Circle Calls usually take place on Saturday at 1 pm IST and on Monday at 6.30 AM IST. The topics of both calls are usually the same. This is so we can accommodate people in different time zones. 

You can join by clicking on the Zoom link which we will send to the WhatsApp groups and to your registered email. 
If you miss the call, you can watch the class recording which is uploaded in the Inner Circle Calls module. The Calls are usually uploaded on Monday. 

4. Is it a lifetime subscription

Its a one-year subscription. AI is constantly evolving and we need to keep updating our course along with the developments. 

For example, we have started with the content of 10-15 hours but now we have 10 times that which is around 150 hours. The value added to the course is immense which you will observe once you delve into it.

Your subscription fee help us to get you some renowned mentors and advisors.

5.How does this course help digital marketers and business owners?

We start by giving you basics which will be easy for anyone to understand. Then we help you in acquiring leads based on your niche, help you understand the customer, and also scale the business.In addition, we will be helping you get the email IDs of your ideal prospect.

6. Do you need CRM for marketing?

CRM refers to customer relationship management and you only need it when you are earning more than 5000$ a month.

7. What are all the courses that you offer and who does it help?

We teach prompt engineering techniques and text to image techniques. We also have:
	AI for digital owners and marketers


	AI for developers
	AI automation agency
	 AI for UI/UX Design

These are some of the major courses. We also have other bonuses like a 500 mega prompt library. 

8. What is the next step after the payment?

Once you are done with the payment, you will get an email within a business day confirming your membership with Freedom with AI.

You should start with the Intro to the course module once you get course access, where you will be provided with a road map to the entire course.

9. How does this course help me in getting some passive income/side hustle?

We have this course called AI monetization blueprint where we will provide you with ways to earn money with AI. However, it it up to you to put in the work, take those learnings, implement them and actually earn. 

10. Is there a no-cost EMI option available to purchase your course?

Yes, we do have a cost EMI option available to help you guys. It works with almost all the top credit cards from India, but it's not available for people from countries other than India for now.

11. When do we get certification for attending the masterclass?

We will start providing certifications to all the people who have attended the masterclass starting from Monday. It takes 7 business days for us to delivery the certificate. However, make sure to fill out the certificate form first. 

Certificate:https://docs.google.com/forms/u/1/d/1kA2l_PvLO1l_9XrT_Ye6DAz310ZhqIJ_xX22PLmvJoY/edit

We will also be providing you with some bonuses for attending the masterclass. 

12.What to do if the payment didn't go through or if it has failed due to some server issue?

You need to fll the form given in the description and our team will get back to you as soon as they can, which will take 24-48 hours and help you throughout the process. 

You can also contact us at our mail ID: avi@freedomwithai.com 

You can additionally pay via QR code:
 
UPI ID to make payment is freedomwithai@axl.

13. How many sessions do we get throughout the week?

You will get 2 weekly sessions where you can clarify any doubts from the mentors. Additionally, you have will have 150+ hours of recorded content to go through, which will take months. 

14. Do we need to purchase AI tools necessary for practice or will you be providing that as well?

We will provide you with a Canva Pro subscription and one other software of your choice - Microsoft Office 365 or Invideo. Note: You will get a total of 2 software access. 

Also we will be providing you with alternatives for some expensive tools where itll just be half the price or sometimes trials will be provided by some new companies in the market to compete among others. Our wide research helps you get the tools you need depending on the requirement.

For example, ChatGPT 4 subscription costs around 20$ a month but Microsoft Copilot is a free alternative. It does not save your chat history but provides the same output as ChatGPT. 

If you are looking for a particular type of tool, we also have a 300+ AI tool sheet: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1gXVCenGPhC5FnDCzAvB8xgL-W3VG-z6qtzg8JRrY49k/edit?usp=sharing

If you need any more tools, you can ask in the group or contact the community admin. 

15. When can we expect software access to Invideo or Canva?

We will be sending it through email and it takes around 3-4 days for confirmation. Please fill out this form for the license (Canva + Microsoft 365/Invidio): https://forms.gle/L8wF5EPFWPu3N83D9 

If you have any doubts regarding this or trouble playing any video or any other issue, please contact our community admins. 

16. Will there be copyright issues if everyone is using the same software or tool?

That won't happen.  If you give all the input on your own about what you need, every output varies on what your actual need is and depends on your requirements.

17. How does this membership help with jobs and how do you contribute to it?

We do not provide placement assistance in the traditional sense where we refer you to a company. However, we will help you in every way possible until you get a job. 

Our mentors will teach you how to apply for jobs, how to build your resume, and how to appear for a job interview. 

Our course will also help you ditch the job route altogether and earn through your own business. 


We will be helping you with the placement assistance until you get a job.

We will be walking you through where to apply for jobs, resume building consultation and also how to present yourself in an interview.

18. Would the course cover any international client acquisition strategies?

Defnitely! We have this course called AI for digital marketers and business owners, where we will teach you how to find clients with AI and how to market your services. 

Businesses can leverage AI for competitive advantage by improving operational efficiency, personalizing customer experiences, predicting market trends, automating repetitive tasks, and fostering innovation.

19. If I purchase the course, how do I get the content?

Once you purchase the course, you will get access to our Learning Management System. It will have 150+ hours of recorded videos you can watch whenever you want. 

You will receive an email with your course details. If you do not receive the email, please reach out to the community admin or mail at avi@freedomwithai.com

20. Can I just choose 1 or 2 courses from the whole subscription and pay less?

Unfortunately, you need to take the whole package to get access to the course. You need to learn at least 4 course modules thoroughly and the other modules can help you get better with AI. If you are looking for a discount, we can connect you to our sales rep. 

Most people will be requiring only 2-3 courses in total but you gotta take the whole package to get access to what you need and the rest will be a bonus for you.

21. How does it help people who work in data analytics?

There are a lot of AI tools and plugins which help data analysts. Additionally, we have mentors with years of experience in data science and AI in big companies. You can take guided advice from them. 

22.If someone is looking for a career change, how does this course help?

Input or write down all that you are doing and browse throughout the whole course. Select a few possibilities and enter it into ChatGPT. Ask it to give you a list of pros and cons, current market trends, etc. You can also enter your resume information and ask ChatGPT if there are skills in it that can help you with the course. 

23. When we ask for a Python code, its showing some errors. How do I extract the code successfully without getting any errors?

You gotta give the right input on what code you need, then ask to debug it and improve the code.

You can also give errors to the Chatbot and ask it to correct the code by itself.

If this does not work, feel free to reach out to me and I will connect you to one of our mentors. 

24. Any suggestions you wanna give before entering the course?

Process gets easier with AI but you need to personalize it with your own input and creativity. 

This isnt a get-rich-quick scheme. You have to think long-term to earn money, but if you follow the classes properly and practice, you should start earning in one to two months. Pick a single niche to focus on and invest all your time and effort into it. 

You have to be willing to put in extra work at first. Once you do, it will get easier and you will have to hardly do anything in the long-run. 

25. If someone is a tech person, how will this course help in using AI-related tools?

Prompt engineering will be the most high paid job in the upcoming months. Every company is looking for a prompt engineer. If you are a developer, there is a course in our curriculum AI for developers which can help you out.


26. Can AI help in research and trading?

You can always learn trading from AI but implementing it is a bad idea and can also be very tricky.

AI comprehends the information better than any human, so it can definitely help you in your research among many other things.

27. What are the current trends in artificial intelligence?

Some current trends in AI include advancements in natural language processing, reinforcement learning, autonomous systems, and AI ethics. Keeping up with these trends is essential for staying relevant in the field.

28. What are the key skills needed to succeed in artificial intelligence programming?

You should be good with programming languages like Python and R, machine learning algorithms and techniques, data manipulation and analysis, critical thinking, problem-solving, and communication skills.

29.What are some emerging applications of artificial intelligence?

AI is showing up in every field imaginable. It is being used for autonomous vehicles, healthcare diagnostics, personalized medicine, smart cities, virtual assistants, predictive maintenance, and AI-driven creativity in art and music.

30. Which teaching methods do you use in this course?

We have a massive library of 200+ hours of videos on prompt engineering, text-to-image prompting, digital marketing with AI, AI for developers, Ui/Ux design, how to make money with AI, and so on. 

We also have a library of 500+ mega prompts and 100+ prompts for programmers. 

Along with this, we offer 2 weekly live classes called the Inner Circle Calls. 

We also have hands-on projects and interactive exercises, to make sure you are not only consuming content but using these techniques to earn money. 

When do the Inner Circle Calls happen?

The Inner Circle Calls usually take place on Saturday at 1 pm IST and on Monday at 6.30 AM IST. The topics of both calls are usually the same. This is so we can accommodate people in different time zones. 

If you miss the call, you can watch the class recording which is uploaded in the Inner Circle Calls module. The Calls are usually uploaded on Monday. 

31. How can AI be used to personalize customer experiences in retail and e-commerce?

AI can analyze customer behavior, preferences, and purchase history to offer personalized product recommendations, optimize pricing and promotions, provide targeted marketing messages, and improve overall satisfaction and loyalty.

32. What are the limitations of current AI technologies?

Current AI technologies are limited due to lack of common sense reasoning, hallucinations, bias in the training data, susceptibility to adversarial attacks, data privacy concerns, and ethical challenges.

33. How can AI be used to enhance cybersecurity?


	AI can enhance cybersecurity through applications such as anomaly detection, malware detection, threat intelligence analysis, user behavior analytics, network traffic monitoring, and automated incident response.

34. What are some potential career paths in artificial intelligence?

Career paths in artificial intelligence for tech roles include roles such as data scientist, machine learning engineer, AI researcher, software developer specializing in AI, AI ethics, policy advisor, and AI product manager.

For non-tech roles, you can provide freelance services like writing, graphic designing, video editing, web designing services, etc with AI tools. You can also start your own side hustle like selling AI-written ebooks, stickers on Etsy, and so much more. 

35. What are some examples of successful AI startups or companies?

 There are startups like Uizard, Tome, Synthesia, Jasper, MindsDB, reaching new heights every day with AI. 

36. Can I get ChatGPT-4 subscription?
OpenAI has limited ChatGPT 4 access. You can apply and then you will have to wait in a queue. You might get accepted in a few days. 

37. Are there any ChatGPT alternatives?
Microsoft Copilot gives you access to ChatGPT for free, but it doesnt save the conversation. You can also use tools like Taskade to get access to GPT-4. Additionally, you might want to look into chatbots like Claude, Googles Gemini, Perplexity, etc. 

38. The course website is not working. Can you please look into it?
Can you clear your browser cache and cookies and then open the course website from an incognito browser?

Its still not working. 

Alright. We will look into it. (Send the information of the website crashing to Animesh.) 

39. Im new. How do I start with the course?
Start with the Intro to the course module. Avinash will explain how to watch the course in the first video. 

Link: https://freedomwithai.teachable.com/courses/enrolled/2407021

40. Hi, Can I get the Course fee structure?
Did you attend the webinar?

No. 

Please attend the webinar first. 

Alternative: 
Did you attend the webinar?

Yes. 

Here are the course fee structure:
 

41. I want GST Invoice/ General Invoice for the payment. How can I get it?
Please give me the following details:
Your name:
Number:
Email ID:
GST:
Location: 

(Once you get these details, send them to Avinash.)

42. Hi, Many people do not check their email. Is there any other way I can get notifications?
Please make sure to join the Freedom with AI Membership group on WhatsApp. The Link is in the access email you were sent. 

We send notifications to these WhatsApp groups too. 

43. Why wont you accept me to the WhatsApp membership group?
You are already in the one membership group. We have more than one group to make space for all the members. And so, we can not accept one member in both groups. Thank you for understanding. 

44. Can I download course videos?
The course videos are exclusive to Freedom with AI members. To prevent misuse of the videos outside of it, we can not let you download the videos.

45. Where can I get the PPTs?

The PPTs are linked underneath the course videos. 

Can I download them?

No, as they are exclusive to the course, you can only view them online. 

46. When is the masterclass?
The Masterclass happens every Saturday at 7.30 pm. To register, please go to https://freedomwithai.com/. 

47. Hello, where is my bonus?
 Did you share a post on social media about my class?

 Yes

> Hello,
Thank you for sharing such positive feedback about both me and the masterclass. I was truly delighted to read your kind words.
As promised, heres the link to your additional bonus of 150+ prompts
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1RrrRSqGCMMOeOq2FmPb2LIB8qCnG1QMb?usp=sharing
I appreciate your support and enthusiasm.
Best regards,
Avinash
48. Hi, I want to connect to  [mentions a mentor]. Can I get his number?
Hello, can you let me know the reason you want to connect?
49.  I havent received my Canva/Invideo access. 
  Please fill out this form for license (Canva + Microsoft 365/Invidio): https://forms.gle/L8wF5EPFWPu3N83D9
 Already done
 Please send me the following details:
Your full name:
Number:
Email: 
50. What is the Capstone project?
The capstone project is a series of weekly assignments surrounding AI. The purpose of this project is to give you hands-on experience. 
Well give you 2 AI-based assignments every week. You will get general and expertise-based assignments. These assignments will be expected to finish 6 weeks at a stretch. 
Note: Finishing the general-based assignment is compulsory. Expertise-based assignments are optional and depend on your personal time investment.
You can join the project any time you want and well consider it your first week from the day you join. 
But once you start the project, you have to finish all general projects for the next 6 weeks if you want the certificate. 
Additionally, the top performers every week will receive a trophy, certificate, and gifts from Freedom with AI. 
51. How do I submit my Capstone project assignment?
There is a form underneath each video in the Capstone module. Use the Google form to enter your submission for the week. 
52. Im new. Can I join the Capstone projects?
You can watch the course videos and try finishing the Capstone projects on the side. Please watch the videos in the Capstone project modules to know whether you can participate in the project at your current experience level. All details are explained there. 
53. Hello, I want a refund. 
Please give me the following details:
Your name:
Number:
Email:
Joining date:
Reason for requesting refund: 
54. Hello, I was trying to pay for No-cost EMI but I accidentally paid the full amount. Is there any way to change this to no-cost EMI?
Hello, please give me your details. I will try and see if there is a way to reverse the transaction. However, I can not promise anything, but we will do out best to help you out. 
55. Can I take the course if I am a non-technical person?
We have created the course in a way so that people with minimal experience with technology can understand and take action. If you face any trouble, our mentors will be there to guide you. 
56. Can I take the course if I am not fluent in English?
You dont need to be fluent in English but you need to have basic communication skills. It is very basic, so dont worry. 
57. Can I take the course if I am a housewife/ just started career/ a student/ got laid off?
Yes, you can take the course. We have created the course in a way that is easy to understand for everyone and everyone can benefit from it. 
58. Do you have an affiliate program?
Yes, we offer a 25% commission if you prompt our course to your friends and family. But only do this if you loved our course and feel there is value on it. 
59. Is this the right Instagram account? Can you give me Avinashs Insta ID?
Yes, Avinashs Instagram account username is: meetavinash 
If you get contacted by someone from Avinashs account about crypto or stock, please dont fall for it. They are imitating him and trying to dupe people out of money. 
What if someone from your company calls?
Even if you get a call from us, ask the person to send an email from the official ID. The official ID is: avi@freedomwithai.com, support@freedomwithai.com. 
Basically, the official ID will always have freedomwithai.com at the end. Since this is linked to the official website, you can be assured it is the right one. 
60. Do you have prompts for specific categories?
We have ready-made prompts for writing, designing, video editing, and so much more. We have a library of 500+ prompts we update on a regular basis. 
You just need to fill out some key information in the space under brackets in the prompts and they will be tailored to your needs.
61. Do you have a course in data science? 
We do have lot of technical content in our AI for developers course including AI for data scientists.
62. What is the technical roadmap for learning prompt engineering?
After taking this course, you should apply for jobs where they ask for python developers with a lot of experience in non-technical prompt engineering. You should also learn data science and machine learning in the side. This will 10x your package. 

63. Hi, do you have a mobile app for the course?
Yes, you can download the Teachable app and log in to take the course from your phone. 
You can open the course in a mobile browser and login with your credentials. 

64.What is this about Dream job achievers pack and 499 payment?/ 
I was told that the masterclass is free but why did I pay amount 499rs?

This pertains to the Dream Achievers Pack recently added to our course. You can opt to purchase it if you desire assistance in crafting resumes, mastering job interviews, and accessing job listings specifically tailored for prompt engineers and AI-related positions.

65.What is Generative AI?

Generative AI is like a digital artist that creates new content, such as images, music, or text, by learning from existing examples. It works by understanding patterns in data and then generating new content that mimics those patterns, allowing it to produce original and realistic outputs.

66.What is Chatgpt full form?

The full form of "GPT" in ChatGPT stands for "Generative Pre-trained Transformer." This refers to the model architecture developed by OpenAI, which is used for generating human-like text based on the input it receives. The "Chat" prefix indicates its application in conversational interactions, where users can engage in dialogue with the model.

67.What is transformer?

A transformer is a type of computer program that helps machines understand and generate language better. It's useful for things like translating languages or creating sentences that make sense.

68.What is neural network?

A neural network is a computational model inspired by the structure and function of the human brain, designed to recognize patterns and solve complex problems. It consists of interconnected nodes, or "neurons," organized in layers. Each neuron receives input, processes it, and passes the output to the next layer of neurons. Through a process called training, where the network is exposed to labeled data, neural networks can learn to make predictions or classify data accurately.

69.What is finetuning?

Fine-tuning in AI means adjusting a pre-trained model to better fit a specific task or data, like tweaking a recipe to make it taste just right for a particular dish.

70.What is prompt engineering in brief?

Prompt engineering means creating clear and specific instructions for AI so it can give the right answers or do the right tasks. It's like giving the AI a good map to follow so it knows where to go and what to do.
71.How does AI impact :
Health Industry
AI algorithms are employed to analyze medical imaging such as X-rays, CT scans, and MRIs with high efficiency and precision. This technology aids in identifying anomalies like tumors and fractures, often with greater speed and accuracy than human radiologists. Such advancements not only improve diagnostic processes but also help in early detection of diseases, which is crucial for effective treatment.
In addition to diagnostics, AI plays a pivotal role in personalized medicine and drug discovery. By analyzing vast datasets that include medical records, genetic information, and treatment outcomes, AI can tailor treatments to individual patient needs, improving the likelihood of successful outcomes. Furthermore, in drug discovery, AI accelerates the process by predicting chemical interactions, which can lead to the faster development of new drugs while also forecasting potential side effects and interactions. This integration of AI into the health industry not only streamlines workflows but also enhances patient care on multiple fronts.
Automotive Industry
AI technologies are pivotal in the development of autonomous vehicles. Through advanced algorithms and machine learning, AI enables cars to interpret sensor data, enabling them to understand and navigate their environment. This technology is the backbone of self-driving cars, allowing them to make real-time decisions about speed, navigation, and obstacle avoidance.

AI also enhances vehicle safety and efficiency. Features such as predictive maintenance, adaptive cruise control, and emergency braking systems are powered by AI, improving the safety of both the vehicle and its passengers. Additionally, AI is used in manufacturing processes within the automotive industry to optimize production lines, reduce waste, and improve quality control. By predicting equipment failures and scheduling timely maintenance, AI helps in minimizing downtime and ensuring the efficient operation of manufacturing facilities. Overall, AI's integration into the automotive industry leads to smarter, safer, and more efficient vehicles, transforming how manufacturers build and individuals drive cars.

Teaching Field

 primary impacts of AI in education is the personalization of learning. AI-driven platforms can analyze the learning habits and performance of individual students, allowing for the creation of customized educational experiences that cater to their specific needs and learning paces. This level of personalization helps in addressing the varied learning styles of students, potentially increasing engagement and improving educational outcomes.

Moreover, AI tools are enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of teachers. With the help of AI, administrative tasks such as grading and record-keeping can be automated, freeing up teachers to spend more time on instructional and student-centered activities. AI can also provide real-time feedback to students, offering guidance and support outside of normal classroom hours, thus extending learning opportunities. Additionally, AI-driven analytics can help educators identify areas where students may struggle, allowing for timely intervention.

Here the complete details on the courses offered.
course 1: Intro to course 
Module1: Intro to the course
Welcome AI freedom hackers to this freedom with AI membership. You have just made one of the best decisions of your life. Beyond excited to have you with us on this incredible journey of mastering artificial intelligence and prompt engineering. I am Avinash as you know, the founder of  freedom with AI and I can't wait to see you amazing things you'll achieve. First and foremost, I want to express my deepest gratitude to all of you for choosing this membership. Your commitment and enthusiasm are what makes this community so special. I'm committed to delivering the top-notch content and I ask you to stay laser focused on your learning journey.  And in the next 6 months, it's normal to feel lost, stuck or overwhelmed on this journey. Don't worry though, because that's the sign that you're stretching beyond what's easy and familiar to you. In other words, you're growing. Great things don't happen when you're too comfortable or everything is easy. Sometimes you might feel like giving up. But remember this, the hardest paths often lead to the most beautiful places.  So, when things get tough, don't see it as a sign that you're failing. Instead, it's a part of process, a sign that you are on your way to achieve something great. Think about it like this. Change is all about focusing on creating something new, not fighting against the old or enemy. Feeling confused or uncomfortable is the part of this change and it means you're learning. Hang in there, keep trying and you'll start to see a change in yourself that's better than anything you have ever imagined.  And don't forget, we're all here for you as a community. I'm committed to the best I can to make your journey smooth and successful.  different ways to make money using AI exclusively. And three bonus courses are AI tools and apps to supercharge your productivity and creativity. Behind the scenes of my businesses is the third course in which you will learn everything about the businesses I'm building to get the best  viewpoint of myself and my businesses. Thirdly, we also have a top-notch mega prompts to address all your needs to master any large language model. I created this course to address growing need for AI expertise and empower you to harness the power of AI to transform your career, your business and even the world. That's my mission and I'm thrilled that you're part of it. Now listen up, I have six points to say. One,  I want you to commit to completing this course. In business, money loves speed. And taking quick and imperfect actions is often better than waiting for perfect ones, just like Jeff Bezos. Building your personal brand is crucial. Try to choose a platform you're comfortable with, whether it's a blog, LinkedIn, short videos, long videos, podcast, Twitter, anything to start sharing your knowledge. Comment on every single video in this bold membership.  and engage with other followers that will create a vibrant and supportive community. When you want something, community will give you back. 4. Join our VIP Facebook group where we are bringing together the best AI entrepreneurs, engage with others, consume  content, network with the people who share your passion and get access to a valuable resource. 5. Don't forget to join your inner circle calls every Thursday. These calls will provide you with additional support, insights and opportunity to connect with your fellow AI enthusiasts. 6. Remember, have fun while consuming the content. Let your passions for AI drive you. Enjoy every step of your journey. Because what's life without having fun?  So yeah, let's go folks, the future is waiting and it's time to conquer it with AI. 


Module2: How to Optimize Your Learning Journey ( Road Map)
Hey everyone, this is Avinash back with another video. In this video, let's discuss about freedom with AI roadmap.  I will give you an optimized plan to get the best output from this course and to get the best return of every minute you invest with us at Freedom With AI. You know, it's quite common to be overwhelmed when you see 10 plus courses and resources in the learning management system, right? So it's okay. You know, many people might be feeling, Oh God, what's my first step should be? What's my second step? Will I get anything? What's the end and stuff like that.  So, I will give you the step-by-step organized way of learning text, right, so that you could get the best return of every single minute you invest with us as I told you before, right. So, if you see this screen here.  where I'm talking about, you know, the steps, right? So I hope you can see the screen. So the first, let's talk about the organization of the steps. There are essentially four different steps that you need to follow. The first thing is compulsory steps.  Compulsory steps are the kind of courses that you need to complete no matter what career you belong to or what you do in your work life to be a ultimate user of ChatGPT or ME AI, generative AI tool. That's the first thing you need to do. And then specialized steps are the second category of steps where you'll only do this courses according to your requirements.  You can just do any one course or two course or just can even avoid these courses if you don't like any of them or you if you think they don't apply to them. There is no compulsion to complete this specialized courses. And then then goes to the third step where we are talking about advanced steps.  where everyone needs to do this to get the best output. Okay, maybe you skipped specialized steps, but then advanced steps are ultimately very necessary to get the best output from this entire freedom with AI membership. That's one. And while doing these three things, there is a parallel steps that you need to follow.  which is like watching inner circle calls and behind the scenes of my companies, which we'll discuss later. So now, let's go to the first and understand what are these compulsory steps that everyone needs to follow. The first thing you need to do is, the moment you purchase the course and get the large LMS access, all you need to do is first complete this welcome video series. We'll even add this word called watch this first,  Just watch them. You know, this is where you will find 8 to 9 maybe 10 videos where we will kind of put you in a mindset and put you in a path that will take you and make you the best prompt engineer or the best user of generative AI ultimately. That's the goal.  So you might be needing three to four hours of your time. Maybe in the first week alone, just complete the welcome video series. Don't skip it. If you directly go to any other course, you'll not get the best value from this course. Welcome video series is ultimately the most important course when it comes to putting you in a mindset. So once you complete the course, second course you need to do is freedom with AI blueprint.  This is where I personally will teach you what is ChatGPT, what is NLP, how ChatGPT works and prompting techniques and building all these templates and libraries that it's almost impossible to get this kind of content on the internet as of today. So that's my promise. I've researched, spent lakhs and lakhs of money on consultants and acquired this knowledge from the experimentation we did in our own digital marketing agency.  Ultimately, you will be super satisfied with the kind of prompt, I mean, like, you know, freedom with AI blueprint we got from that particular course. So while doing freedom with AI blueprint, you might also parallelly need to explore our prompt library. There is this course or resource called 500 not so obvious prompts, right? So whenever you're learning how to be a prompt engineer, how to build prompts and stuff like that,  Obviously, you need to kind of understand or get some inspiration from the prompts. We did decided to build a 500 prompt library with 800 page doc. All our mega prompts very big with very good context for hundreds of use cases. All you need to do is whenever you want some mega prompts inspiration. And by the way, what is mega prompt and all will be discussed in Freedom with AI Blueprint. Don't worry.  all these prompts, you can just go to the library in a Google Doc, get some inspirations and build your own prompts on top of them. Right. So that's the second thing you need to do parallelly in the second step in the compulsory steps. OK. Compulsory steps is for everyone. And the second thing you need to do compulsory steps is to watch Freedom with AI Blueprint, parallelly explore, prompt library plus AI tools arsenal.  You know there are multiple tools for your use cases. It's your responsibility as a future prompt engineer or a user of generative AI to understand the market tools. Like what are the tools that were available in the market is your responsibility.  So, prompt engineer is not someone who writes to tools in a way that AI understands and stuff like that. He's also someone who has idea of multiple tools that are available in the market. So, to be the best in the game, you need to do this blueprint, write prompts, take inspirations to write from the prompt library and also use different AI tools on a weekly or bi-weekly basis to be on top of what's happening in the market.  So once you're done, you're almost the knowledge you're going to have is like almost only 0.1% in the world will know this kind of knowledge. Now you need to kind of implement them or take it in your career or be a prompt engineer separately and all that. I'll also in the coming videos, I'll also discuss how to become a prompt engineer and be and different options that you have to be a prompt engineer in the next video. So wait for that and then complete that after this. So now let's get back to this.  Second thing you need to do is specialized steps. Imagine you're a developer or you wanted to build chatbots or maybe you are a business owner, digital marketer, or you wanted to do different, different things. So we might have specialized course dedicated for your career. For developers, we have AI for developers, AI chatbots and stuff like that. These two courses, we decided to get someone of the team, like Madhu, who is one of my friends,  and we dedicatedly built an entire library of videos with him and he will also be coming to Inner Circle calls on a monthly basis to clear all your doubts. So for developers this is going to be a goldmine. Inside for AI developers course we also have a module for AI for data scientists as of now and we might release few other modules in the coming future. For now we have AI for developers consisting for everyone like every developer or programmer needs to watch this to get  almost all the use cases of ChatGPT and to get the best out of ChatGPT and other language models. That's the first thing. And the second thing Madhu also did is AAA course, inside which we discussed how to build chatbots, AI chatbot especially, with no code or low code or heavy code basis for advanced chatbots. We discussed multiple tools and varieties and how to make money from it. All that in this AAA course.  goldmine in my opinion if you want to build AI tools or chatbots. That's the second thing inside the specialized steps we have. We also have AI for business owners and digital marketers course by Leela Shankar, again one of my friend and I feel he's one of the best growth marketers India has ever produced. He worked with international people and  These techniques are going to blow your minds off if you're a business owner or digital marketers. I highly recommend you to complete that particular course if you are really someone who wants to be a future business owner or you're currently doing some kind of a business or digital marketing. That will be a gold mine.  So the goal is not to be, not to teach myself for everything. You know, I don't want to teach everything, you know, learning and I'm not that kind of person. I have some expertise. I only teach you that. And I have friends who have other expertise and I'll bring you in. Friends, someone I know, all that. I'll just bring the best minders in the game so that you will get the best bang for your buck.  as simple as that. Right. So with the high intentions, I'm just bringing a lot of mentors so that within one membership, imagine having lots and lots of courses and imagine having lots of mentors so that you can ask your doubts to them or maybe there are support staff who will go talk to mentors and get back to you. All that. Right. So the next thing we have for now is AI for  you know image prompt engineers like you know we'll teach you image prompt engineering and text to image blueprint in which we'll discuss if you're an artist or a photographer anything that has to do with image generation this course is for you so I personally thought this on on top of my theoretical content and image who is at in-house the most talented designer and UX UI UX guy I have ever seen in my life  Like in in my life, like, you know, I like, you know, personally, he's one of the best, right? So I bought him from my team to record content for you guys. He has lots of work, but I asked to pause the work for a few days and to work on this particular course. He did entire practical series, right? He he went on to become like this guy who did  all the walkthroughs for almost all these three image rendition tools which is Tally, Stable Diffusion plus Mid Journey. Mid Journey is like most of you guys' favorite, right? Even mine.  So, we'll teach you all that in this particular thing. And then next that, you know, the next thing is advanced steps. Okay, now you, you know, got compulsory steps done, specialized steps done, what's next? It's about you creating some capstone projects or you completing this AI monetization course. Inside AI monetization course, we discussed like say several ways to make money using different AI exclusive business models.  I have lots of friends that were using this business models right now in my own inner circle and making money using AI exclusively in this trade. I gave you different ways a non-business owner or non-technical person or a student would make money with ease with less than investment of $5,200 at max. So I just took everything and gave this in this particular course.  On top of my theoretical knowledge, I know all the theory, right? Animesh will take you and give you practical walkthroughs for most of this, you know, theory based videos we did in this particular AI monetization videos. That's one. And then the last one is one of our mentors or maybe myself in a month or so will be releasing you the advanced steps, right?  So, what is this advanced steps, 8th thing in the advanced steps, we will be releasing you capstone projects. We will kind of give you 15-20 options to build different capstone projects that you could put it in your CV. We will give you what video to watch to complete this capstone project and how to do that exactly. We will make like maybe 15-20 videos and explain each capstone projects in a very detailed way.  You can just choose few of the capstone projects that you are interested in and just complete those capstone projects for your benefit and your CME's benefit and a lot more than that. So that capstone projects in a month it's coming. So  I hope now it's clear, the step by step process. Once you're done with that one step, the last step is, it's not like a last step, but you need to do parallelly. Like although in the order it is last, but this thing should be done from the day one, right? The first thing in a parallel step is inner circle calls. Every week we have two inner circle calls covering almost all the time zones in the world.  One is on the Saturday, other one is on the Monday approximately. Just do attend those live inner circle calls. Sometimes it will be hosted by me, sometimes it will be by Madhu, sometimes it will be by Leela Shankar. Like we have almost 8 to 9 or 10 inner circle calls on a monthly basis, right?  We'll cover different mentors so that you will get a holistic Experience of learning prompt engineering and learning to be the best user when it comes to generative AI, right? So we will bring lots and lots of mentors and sometimes even guest lectures possibly To give lots and lots of clarity, right? So once inner circle call is in effect all you miss in the worst case we'll have an inner circle course in which we'll update all the inner circle calls and  Maybe in the next 24 hours, you can just watch it at your own at your own convenient time from that particular module. It's like a recorded version. And then there is other course where I'm talking about behind the scenes of my companies. This with this course will also be updated on a timely basis about my companies and stuff like that. You can just complete that particular course whenever you have time. It's very optional if at all you are interested in knowing about my companies and about me, what I'm doing.  you could just complete that particular video like that particular series right now it's only one video we'll keep updating them on a monthly or bi-monthly basis or quarterly basis i'll just add little updates about all my companies at once right so this is how you need to complete or consume the entire content from this particular thing so most probably we'll keep adding videos inside  this particular course relevant on the daily I mean like on a monthly or a bi-weekly basis if you see there is any update in the market we keep adding them but then if at all you have something like if at all you have any requirement keep let keep letting us know we'll kind of create videos on top of it right on top of videos inside the courses if at all we have any good requirement from the community will also keep  releasing more and more courses as time permits and financials permits, I'll add more and more courses also so that it will be apt for almost 100% of the people that enroll into the course in an advanced level. Right. So that's it from my end guys. Thanks for spending five minutes with me and remember one thing at last, like I told you in the previous intro video,  This is not going to be a very easy journey. Most of you people will give up in the next 2, 3, 4 days maximum. You bought in the hype, but then it's your responsibility for the money you invested, for the time, energy you are investing. It's your responsibility not to lose focus because as I said you in the webinar, your life is literally now dependent on  AI. No matter what you do in the next few months or maybe an year at max, you will see the replications or you know, you will see the effects. So, it is our responsibility combinedly. I am doing my best from my end to give the best content possible in the industry and you be laser focused and be motivated and then it is very common to have you know some ups and downs while consuming. Sometimes you will not you will not understand the video itself. Then you might be thinking  Hey, maybe it's not for me. No, it's for you. And it's your responsibility to complete this thing. Just watch the video twice, thrice, and maybe attend inner cycle calls and ask, Hey, Avinash, I didn't understand this particular video in the prompt engineering or Madhu, I didn't understand this particular thing in particular concept in AI for developers.  Could you just explain me in a better way if possible? I will do everything in my hand to explain that particular concept as if I am explaining it to a 12 year old then and clear off all your doubts. Right?  inner circle calls are more important than this particular calls because that's where the transformations happens. It's more about practicals, you know, advanced knowledge, recent knowledge, on top of it Q&A every single time we do this inner circle calls. So I hope  you are as motivated as me and just type in the word I am motivated in the comment down comment box down below if you are really motivated to complete this with utmost focused to say I am motivated right that's all see in the next video this is Avinash signing off thank you guys bye bye thank you guys bye 


Module3:  Roadmap for success with Freedom With AI
Hi guys, this is Avinash. So in this video, you know, let's discuss about the roadmap for success with freedom with AI. So in the previous video, we discussed about content consumption roadmap. Consider this as the most advanced and very important video to set the tone for this entire membership of one year, you might be thinking, okay,  what's in it for me? How will freedom with AI benefit me? And what are the different roadmaps available for the different category of people? Let's discuss that. So imagine you're a student. So let's discuss like, you know, for student, for working professional, for a housewife or someone who  got a career gap or layoff that could be third one and finally a business owner let's discuss this four things okay so let's broadly divide it into four things and discuss that number one student so if you're a student how can we help you or how can this whole system will help you pretty simple so you're a student you could be related to any category no matter who you are you're studying MBBS or maybe a developer ChatGPT will help you  Very simple. Maybe not as much as for a developer or a content writer or a marketer. It might not be super helpful for MVBS. Let's keep that aside.  but it will be definitely helpful for 90% of the people who enroll here even if you are a student for the career purposes. But normally even if you are studying M.E.B.S. you could still use the Algebra and prepare for your exams but that might not be super helpful for a career purpose but for cracking exams, preparing for the jobs, stuff like that could be easily done. If you are a student you will have your own career path already chosen like from your M.Tech, B.Tech or whatever. On top of that you are here learning AI  ChatGPT and prompt engineering. So when you learn these things you are having the certification that could add weightage to your resume on top of it if you are a student remember this doing capstone projects after learning everything from the course will add so much of immense value that the resume weightage will be at least be doubled like 100% extra marks for just doing capstone projects because  People will consider certifications as basic things, but when you add capstone projects on top of certification, they will take you seriously. So, to get more calls when you are applying for the companies, one good thing is do the capstone projects.  We totally have lots and lots of capstone projects and we have a proper mentor support. You could just do them by following all the instructions and even taking help of the dedicated mentor that you will have, which will just impact your resume very much.  consume content, do capstone projects, get some tangential information and just do that. Do apply for lot of jobs. On top of this, we also have a master class on how to make a million dollar resume. You should consume that. And we also have a master class on how to crack your dream interviews. You have to consume that. Third one, we are listing 200 plus jobs in the field of prompt engineering on a monthly basis  all around the world. Once you complete these two masterclasses and complete entire content consumption and capstone projects, then start applying with all the skills you acquired and trust me, your journey will be smoother, better and faster. And just thank me later after cracking your job. And that's for the students.  And second, a working professional. As we discussed in the previous videos, it's very simple for working professionals as well. You might be having a job. You might need a hike. So, that would be your objective, right? Like, obviously, a better career, better hike could be anything. You'll also consume content, do the cash flow projects, add to your resume and do everything that students does. Simple. But on top of it, what you have to do is here, on top of the things that I told for the students is, if you are really looking for a hike,  Just go to your company and say, Hey, I did certification and caption projects. That's the reason I'm like very productive these days. And you could see that in my work also. I'm at least 40% 50% productive. Maybe I deserve a better hike than an average individual in the company. That's the first technique to get a  better package through negotiation. Productivity could be your first negotiation tactic to get a hike. Second, imagine you are okay productive and stuff, but they kind of are not in a situation to give you a hike. Second thing is your company might have so many opportunities that you could add so that your companies will save money. For example, you know your company might have  20 member support team you could go to them and say hey there is a company called Dukan that replaced 90% of the technical staff with one chatbot and I learned how to do that particular chatbot you know through this freedom with AI course and I could do the same with all the knowledge base that we already gave to the customer support we'll just give it to the chatbot and chatbot will just resolve 80% of the queries and we don't need 20 members or maybe we just need 20 members but we could give  100x fast replies to our customers. And when you do this, I am 100 and 200% sure that your company will definitely acknowledge and give you a better high than an average employee in your own company because you just solved a big problem in your company. You see, it's not how much money you want from the company. It's how much money you make or you save for the company. That's it.  The more money you make, the more money you save to the company being an employee inside, the more money they will give you. As simple as that. Two ways to make money. If in the worst case, you are not in a situation or the company is not in a situation to give you a hike even after these two things. The third thing that you could do is simply change a job. As simple as that.  you apply for the better job. We already have the resume masterclass, interview masterclass and you already have this certification plus capstone projects on you. It will be definitely worth giving a try and I'm 100% sure you could get a better jump than random 10, 15, 20% hike. You could get a jump worth 40%, 50% since you have all the skills acquired. But the thing is  Your skills should not be just an information. It should be an information or the knowledge that you could implement in the next company that you are joining. That's very important. And one more highlight point I wanted to make for the working professionals during this whole job search, in the worst case you want to switch the job, get to a prompt engineering role or something else, do a better and proper and deep research to apply for the jobs.  Gone are those days where you could apply any job in a particular industry and get placed. No. Companies were looking niche people for the specific problems they are having in the companies right now. So you will not be placed if you're just applying random jobs with the same CV for every job that you're applying. No. First thing, do a deep research. Go study hundreds of jobs.  on now query linkedin and other job portals when you do that you'll basically understand what's going on the ecosystem and what are the different jobs available and by watching our master class on link on you know resumes  you will use those techniques to kind of edit the resume according to the job description of the each job that you are applying in under 10 minutes that's it so that you are spending 10 minutes and applying to maybe 25 to 50 jobs with the different different resumes which will yield you a better job than randomly mass applying with the same resume and stuff  everywhere and anywhere. The one thing that you remember here is, before choosing what jobs that you need to apply, you have to choose the nice and good ones from your deep research. I often see people don't do this research even when they really want the job. Like I have friends who complain that they're not getting the job, but when I ask how many jobs they applied, they'll say 10.  I was like, 10? Apply 100. What's stopping you? You are anyways watching Netflix and scrolling Instagram all day every day. Right? Just research jobs and apply at a scale. That is one thing that I would say. And right now it is very easy to even search for jobs on PromptEngineering because we have a 200 job listings that is being updated every month. We did that hard work also for you.  We crawled 2,000-3,000 jobs on a monthly basis and are given 200 best of those jobs. You could just select what suits you between non-technical and technical and just go forward. That's it. So, these are the few tips in terms of career roadmap that I could give for a working professional. And these tips apply for everyone. If you're a bank manager or maybe an IT developer. See and now.  someone with a career gap. Very simple for you also. I'll give you a proper roadmap. We have  Python. Maybe if you are interested in learning Python, learn Python. We have few niche skills. We are also teaching you digital marketing. We are also teaching you how to build chat boards. So, whatever the specific concept that you are interested in, pick in that concept, learn it completely, do the related capstone projects on them and do the tangential information research on top of what we are teaching on that particular topic that you choose and that's all. You just have to do it.  and apply for the jobs in that particular field by doing the exact research techniques that I told for the working professionals and apply for the job. If you are not interested in that, if you are only interested in making money as a side result because you are a housewife or someone with a career gap or whatever, if you are someone like that who are only interested in passive income, firstly it's no passive income, it's an active income, you have to work actively to get passive income in the longer term but then  How to make money using AI? I'll give you a roadmap. Step number one, consume content. Step number two, AI monetization. According to the roadmap, after consuming content, you choose one or two or three business models that you love from this particular course called AI monetization, in which we usually teach 30-50 different ways to make money using AI right now. So, you'll choose maybe max at three and then  then go to YouTube and do the tangential information research on top of it. While doing this tangential information on the business model that you picked, you will go to AI business owners course which we already have in the gold membership. So what AI monetization gives you is a business model. What AI for business owners gives you is how to do this business in a much organized way. AI monetization will give you the domain expertise.  will teach you the AI tool that you need to use the image that you need to generate blah blah blah but when you do business AI for business owners course you will get functional expertise how to get leads how to scale your business how to do you know market research how to do customer research how to understand ideal customer persona and all of that understand when you do this thing parallelly that's where the gold is  on top of it when you do tangential information research on the business models that you already picked from Google from YouTube man you're done like literally that's like the roadmap to make your first few lakhs as an individual who wants to make passive income that's it  So, this doesn't apply only for the people with career gap or something this also apply for the students who wants to make money passively also for the working professional who wants to make money passive. And the fourth customer persona that we have at Freedom With AI, the fourth category is obviously the business owners, digital marketers or self-employed people. So, when you are a self-employed person, it's a no-brainer for you to have Freedom With AI. You will have different operations or different things, different functionalities in your business.  operations, HR, marketing. In the marketing you'll have content marketing, digital marketing, stuff like that. And it could be tech, whatever. For every functionality I said in your business, we have content dedicated for you. Design, we have AI for designers and UI UX people.  and for content writers and market we have AI for self-employed business owners and marketing coach. For AI for developers we have AI for developers. For support we have AI for chatbots. For whatever the functionality that you want to make better and make productive in your business we already have content just consume content if at all you are stuck just call to the community manager at any point of time  obviously you have to book the call before calling him so that you will have the similar slots and talk to them so as a business owner you just consume implement it and share the knowledge with your teammates so that the teammates of yours your colleagues or your employees will start implementing things that's it you don't need to do capstone projects but I still suggest you to do because you'll get hands-on experience you're not doing it for the resume for like rest of the categories you are doing it for your own sake to understand  understand how to make PPT how to make pitch deck in 15-20 minutes so that you could teach the same to your designer to make a design or a poster or something much much faster. So I would highly urge to maybe share the information that you are learning to your teammates colleagues and employees so that they will be productive as well. That's it guys. That's the four categories that I could think of like self-employed fourth one third one who wants to make money at any whatever the category they are in and working professionals  students. I think those are the four top professional categories that we have and  I hope this video helps. If at all you have any doubts, feel free to attend any inner circle calls. I myself co-host almost all the inner circle calls which will happen on a weekly basis. So if you are not in this category, just come up to the inner circle call and we'll have a one-on-one conversation for at least 5, 10, 15, 20 minutes so that I could give the same roadmap for you also custom tailored for your situation. That's it.  So that's for this video. See you in the next one. Thank you. 

Module4:  5 ways people can fail with Freedom With AI (an honest talk)
Hey everyone, this is Avinash. So, in this video, let's discuss about 5 ways people can fail with freedom with AI.  You know, I just want you to be honest from day one. I don't want to set a wrong expectation or promise you the moon and the sun and whatever. I want to be honestly saying you what it takes to be successful and to attain freedom with AI. No matter who you are, you could be a working professional who wants to have a hike or maybe a housewife who wants to restart or a student or a business owner.  what it takes to be successful. So how to avoid failure is what we discussed.  You know, we surveyed approximately 200 plus people who enrolled with Freedom With AI. Few are very successful and few are not so very successful. And then we observed patterns and observed five things to be specific on top five. So now I wanted to discuss those five things that you need to avoid or you need to take care to get the maximum benefit from Freedom With AI and the community. Number one, not following the road map.  Often people, no matter how good of a roadmap we give, they just don't follow it.  They will start anywhere and everywhere they wanted to see. They'll just watch videos randomly. And that is where you are losing the context and the momentum of a set of videos. You have to watch the course, which is compulsory first, no matter who you are, and then slowly go to the next modules. A lot of people miss this. So if you are someone who is watching this, you're already at a better place where you actually came into the intro module and completing the course here.  So, it is a good thing. The second mistake we often see here is not consuming content.  When I say not consuming content, 80% of the people watch less than 25% of the content in our learning management system. That's a lot better than industry standards, but generally it's not so great. I want it to be a lot more. If I want to make you super successful to get whatever that you want from this whole membership, you need to consume content.  consume content, interact with people in the community, attend every single inner circle call that's happening every week so that you can reap the maximum benefits from us. If you just pay and then just log in once or twice a month to the learning management system and open Charjabati once or twice a week, that's not going to cut it. You have to not only consume content maybe at least couple of hours a week, but usage of Charjabati is also equally important.  and getting on to inner circle call that will probably consume one to two hours. So consuming content, not consuming content and blaming yourself or blaming us, blaming about AI will not cut it. So please watch content and only then you'll be successful. Number three, not implementation. People will enroll.  They will just consume 95% of it, but they will not do anything about the content they watched, which is much worse than not watching content, right? Like, at least if you're not watching content, you save time, you didn't waste your time. But here, after investing so much time on your videos, but still not implementing is the worst thing. The fourth thing is tangential information.  which means you are just consuming content from our backend but not doing any research whatsoever externally, which is very harmful. Don't trust just us, just research. See other people who are making same business model, who are making money from same business model or maybe people who are using similar techniques on Instagram or YouTube or Google.  So not researching enough is the biggest curse of this generation is what I think. At least Zenzi, they're so impatient that they don't do any external research. Please avoid that. Like if you are already into this whole membership, I'm very sure that you're on the top one person in the world. So at least for that reason, don't do the surface level research.  If you want some knowledge after consuming the content from learning management system, maybe read 4-5 articles, watch 2-3 YouTube videos, spend good 1-2 hours on the main important topic of the entire course, so that you will have tangential information. When you do the research and get the tangential information, it will not only help you to be confident, but also will be helping you to implement things. And the fifth and most important thing is  You know, a lot of people might be here to make money, but the one thing they miss is asking the right question to themselves. Everyone who wants to make money, a lot of times ask this question, which is, how can I make money passively? You know what? That's the wrong question. You know what's the right question is? How can I add more value to someone so that that person will pay me money?  So it's not about how you can make money. It's about how you can add value in the marketplace so that you will make money. It's the same in your job. It's not how can you get hype in your workplace. It's how you can add value to your workplace so that they will feel that you are more productive and they will give you money. Across the board, student, working professional, business owner, it's not money game. It's the value game.  you know things that we buy is because the value that thing gives us the pin you know do you buy pin because it will make you money no it adds value so you are purchasing this pin because of the value this pin has that's the reason create a value in the marketplace just like this pin does in the marketplace so then you'll be making money and i know this is a little bit of harsh or maybe  too much of a reality, think that you might be expecting something as easy as copy pasting to make money.  No guys, there is no passive way to make money initially. There is only active hustle. You will actively hustle, hustle, hustle for so long that it will become passive because of the hustle that you actively make for a few months or years depending upon the business model that you choose. So the next time when you want to make money, the right question is how to add value to someone, how to make their life comfortable or remove the pain in their life from your service, from your job.  then you will make money. So, imagine your company is having a problem, you go into them and saying I learned prompt engineering, I did lot of capsule projects from freedom with AI, I can solve this problem. You might not be aware of it, but you can save lot of costs. And when you think of that way, where you are solving the real problem of company and saving cost of your company,  Then they will give you money, then they will give you the hike, but not when you just say, hey, it's been two years working with you, can I get hike? What's that? Like just because you are at a company for two years, they'll not give you hike. Maybe 3%, 5%, 7%, 8%, whatever it is, they'll give you the basic one. But if you want the real fancy hike, provide value and that value is where the prompt inserting or AI tools comes in.  To be able to provide the best value to the best companies and the best persons in the world, learning prompt engineering and AI is the right thing so that you can make other people's lives so very productive, other companies very cost effective. Those are the five things guys. I'll just repeat. Follow the roadmap. Consume as much content as possible. Be actively engaging in the comment section, actively engaging in the WhatsApp group that we have. And third, learn  and then do little research to gather transactional information and then implement it. Do capstone projects, do attend challenges, do attend small small contests that we do every month or two months. Just be very active in the community. And last but not least,  Money vs Value Mindset. Remember these 5 things and these 5 techniques will make you so much of money that you will just love me for giving me this advice before starting anything. And if this video makes sense and if you watch till this very point of the video, type in the word Avinash I am committed in the comment section below. Thank you guys. 

Module5: Let's set some goals!
Hey guys, this is Avinash back with another video. In this video, let's understand goal setting. So let's just basically set some goals for all the freedom with AI membership that you're going to do for the next one year and stuff like that. Very simple. Take a piece of paper and a piece of paper not a Google Doc or something like that. With a pen, write down why you decided to invest your money with freedom with AI.  understand why you invested write it down pause and write it the second question you have to write it literally on the pen and paper is what do you want to achieve with us what is that one thing and only one thing let's only concentrate on one thing with one thing in the perspective let's just consume the content do everything is it the hike that you want  Is it the side hustle that you want to start as a working professional? And be very clear. If you're a student, if you want a job, write it down and write it with perfect description. Like it could be 20 words minimum, like 15 to 20 words minimum you have to write. Pause it. Amazing. So now the third question is, why do you want to achieve that?  Like, if you want to have a hike, why? Like, why do you even want to get that hike? Why do you even want to get placed at Google? Right? I'll wait. Possible. Fourth. So now, depending upon all the things that you already consumed till now in the mindset part and the introduction part and stuff, from the steps I described, how do you think you can achieve that?  write it when i say with pen and paper i really mean it write it you will thank me later you know your brain works a little better when you take pen and write it on a paper rather than type it maybe if you are a proper content writer your wires in the brain might be habituated in that way like your neurons but if you are not if you are a basic developer or someone else who don't use keyboard and all that a lot  This is the best way. How do you want to achieve that? How you can achieve that? Like, what are the steps that you need to take to get the job that you want or to get the hike that you want? Right? How? It could be very rough. I mean, like, it could be very vague. It could be very bad. Doesn't matter. It's just for now. It's not even anything. Right? Amazing. That's it. These are the four or five questions that I wanted to ask.  What you need to do is now watch it, read it, see it for maybe 15 minutes, just like that. Improvise to the best version you can. And now go to the comment section. As long as it's professional, if it's not too personal, write everything down. And if it's personal, if it one statement is personal, just remove it and write everything down in the comment section down below. Write it.  The moment you are writing things, again you are manifesting it in a right way, in a positive way, with a perfect place, the right place at the right time, with the right community of people. Copy paste everything from a paper onto the comment section. I will personally read, might not reply everyone, but I will personally read a lot of the comments and see how can I improve this program or give more value to as many people as possible  for the best value that I can give. That's it for this video. See you in the next one. 

Module6: Tangential Information Research
Hey guys, this is Avinash, back with another video. So in this video, let's do a small exercise. So what we're trying to do with this exercise is, we are making you do tangential information ka research. We already discussed in lot of videos on what is tangential information. But I have to put you into practice on how to research things and stuff, right?  So it's a very small exercise even a 12th standard or an engineering graduate would be able to do with ease. So what you have to do is very simple. I will give you 10 articles that you need to read which will be in the description section of this particular video. Very simple. Each article will take 2 to 5 minutes to read, understand, find patterns,  and write down all the observations and the conclusions that you got from reading all that things in the next 30 minutes. Read that particular 10 articles, come back to this particular video, comment all of the things that you observed and  as much as it is so easy to say, but it is so very important that you implement this. If you can't do this basic 10 articles, observations, research and stuff, it's going to be tough right for you. So 10 articles it is, 30 minutes. So just simply go read them, come back and comment all your observations. That's it for this video. See you in the next one. Bye. 

Module7: Prompt Engineering Explained
Hey guys, this is Avinash back with another video. In this video, let's discuss prompt engineering. So, I know this is an intro module. It's not to give you an information, but I am not going to give you an information about prompt engineering, but context of prompt engineering and how it can be a one of  the best career options right now in the next decade. Everyone right now guys from Google, Microsoft to Jio, they're trying to hire prompt engineers in the market right now. So first let's understand what is prompt engineering. Very simple. If someone comes to you and say prompt engineering is nothing but a communication, don't believe them. It's not just about communication. In fact, only 25% of prompt engineering  communication skills. And the next 75% of the prompt engineering is combination of prompting techniques and AI tools. What I mean by prompting techniques? Freedom with AI blueprint is full of prompting techniques that you're going to learn but I'll explain you what. Imagine you go to ChatGPT and ask it to write a 50,000 word book, a nonfiction or a fiction book. It will not be able to write. Imagine you go and ask it to  code a thousand two thousand word code for a app using it will be able to do impossible, but there is a catch here ChatGPT will be able to do both of them. If you use few techniques called chain of thought technique tree of thought technique and predictor prompting.  So when you use this prompting techniques, you will be able to understand the deepest level of ChatGPT and get the best out of them. And that plus the knowledge of AI tools is 75% of prompt engineering. Sometimes knowledge of AI tools for few careers is 50% of it. Imagine you're a video editor. Knowledge of picking right tool is more important to you than a developer, than a content creator.  If you are a content writer, AI tools will be only 3-4, but then prominent techniques that you need to understand to write a better content piece are more. If you are a video editor, you do not need to write a lot of content, right, it is just a basic thing. So, 25 percent then for you will be about prominent techniques and 50 percent will be AI tools. So, this way 75 percent is combination of AI tools and prominent techniques and 25 percent is communication skills.  And 25% communication skills is for everyone. And when I say communication skills again, it's not how fancy English that you use, how good of a vocabulary that you use with no grammatical mistakes. No. 50% of the world don't know how to speak in English. That's the reason Charjabati will be able to understand Butler English. The only thing when I mean communication skills is writing a structured prompt.  That's it. Remember 25% is communication skills and 75% is the combination of prompting technique and AI tools. This is prompt engineering. So, I know this is a little bit of information kind of a thing. The reason why I am saying is so that this information will be context for the next statement that I am going to give. So, when you understand prompt engineering, now we can understand what is non-technical prompt engineering, what is technical prompt engineering and what is generative AI prompt, generative AI engineering.  So, now let us understand non-technical prompt engineering very simple. So, non-technical prompt engineers are the people who uses AI tools to the fullest extent possible to make themselves and the companies they are working productive that is it. So, they are just using AI tools like they use trajectory to write a marketing strategy, to write a research paper or to get some content done marketing and stuff like that.  And they are using camo.ai for PPTs, they are using some Excel board, they are using a suno.ai for music in the background and stuff like that. These are the non-technical prompt engineers and non-technical prompt engineers can be in any field whatsoever. They could be video editors, they could be HR journalists, they could be you know content writers everywhere. Everyone could be a non-technical prompt engineer.  and what is the career option for these people. Companies right now are hiring this non-technical prompt engineers to head the team of 10-15 professionals and make these professionals more productive. Imagine there are 10 HRs. This particular person, you know, who is non-technical prompt engineer will act as the AI manager on top of their manager. So 10 HRs will have one manager who manages this 10 HRs plus they will also have one AI manager.  The job of this AI manager is to make the job of this 10 people much effective and productive using AI tools. So, they will go and analyze all the job works that these guys are doing and this particular person will enhance their productivity by saying hey you are making presentations from a normal PPT.  Don't do that from one of Figma or maybe whatever. Use this particular gamma and make it faster and better. The goal of this AI manager is to make company more productive by making individuals in the companies more productive. And this particular manager needs to have HR skills as the secondary job skill set. And the primary skill set of this particular AI manager will be prompt engineering. So whatever the field you are in,  go see the market openings where you know you check for prompt engineers and read the job descriptions you will be able to find ok what kind of secondary skills are expecting on top of the primary skills and accordingly you could just change your field from whatever that you are in add prompt engineer  and go become a AI manager and just one disclaimer here prompt engineering is just one year old one like at least the non-technical prompt engineering or generative AI engineering is just one year old  So, the names is still very vague sometimes they call generative AI engineers and then they ask data science and you know so many things like they call AI prompt engineers, they call AI specialists, AI researchers, AI consultants a lot. So, you have to search for different different keywords.  on you know this job platforms since it's a very very new industry there are jobs but the keywords that these companies were using are not just in a same line they were just using anything and everything but all you need to do is search for different different keywords in the job portals and read the job description and you will be able to know whether you are fit or not. But primarily these are the tasks of an AI manager and these are the opportunities  You will have if you learn non technical prompt engineering and same will happen with content writers. One AI manager will have secondary if he has a secondary experience of content writing and primary experience of you know non technical prompt engineering, he will go  head the team of 10 content writers and even a technical developer has to have some sort of non-technical prompt engineering skills so that he could develop his app or her UI UX or whatever in a faster and better way. If you are a front-end developer using ChatGPT to write the code will be a very good use case using GitHub copilot using Jupiter notebook or whatever to be able to develop things faster  even developers will have to learn non-technical prompt engineering. Although they could be technical prompt engineering, every technical prompt engineer should also learn non-technical prompt engineers. Very simple difference guys. Non-technical prompt engineers are AI app users.  And technical prompt engineers are the one who creates this AI apps, the ones who train this AI apps, create large language models, understand data science, understand Python, understand all the things about AI with all that huge knowledge. So, this technical prompt engineers are the one who build AI apps and that is the difference between technical and non-technical and if you are a non-technical person, technical prompt engineer,  you have to have data science experience with NLP specialization. NLP is very much required if you want if you want to become a technical prompt engineer. On top of it you also need to have a little bit of Python experience, you also need to have general  non technical prompt engineering things also to be able to understand technical prompt engineering things little faster and better that is it. So, that is the difference and that is the skills that you required and obviously, technical prompt engineers are very high in demand and this ever growing thing and technical prompt engineers make more money, but non technical prompt engineers  don't make like a very like it's not like 50 percent difference or something it's just like 20 30 percent of difference but it's always there like if you know how to code you'll obviously get paid a lot more in any industry even if it is some other thing right similarly right now in the market  40% of the jobs in prompt engineering are non-technical and 60% are technical prompt engineers. When you see anthropic hiring of prompt engineer at $2,800, $280,000 or Netflix hiring  a prompt engineer at $500,000 or something. These are non-technical people and they were $100,000, $200,000, $300,000 jobs for non-technical people also. There are a lot of examples that you could Google search. But only thing is when you go to Google and type non-technical prompt engineering, you will not get anything. I named and coined it so that you will understand. Both are called prompt engineers only in the market. But you have to read job descriptions, understand the company, then you will be able to understand  whether that prompting requirement need any technical skills or not. I know it's a very very you know confusing but the thing is that's how it is you know when things are confusing and when you understand that confusing thing you make more money. Isn't it? Watch this video you'll understand everything I said perfectly. So now if you have any doubt obviously feel free to contact us and feel free to attend any intersectional call and we'll clarify it in a  properly. So, now there is something in middle of technical and non-technical form digital which is just popping in last few months which is generative AI engineering. So, what is generative AI engineering? Very simple again this is just being coined right now the name of this job role might change  But the tasks in that particular job remains the same. The thing what this generative AI engineers as of now do is they know little bit of Python and nothing else and but they have no code or low code SAS tool building experience like bubble and like WordPress. No, there are multiple small small no code SAS tools that they know. So what this generative AI people do is  They need to have little bit of Python a little bit of data science experience. Not a lot. These guys are not data science experts or machine learning engineers, but they have little bit of experience in all of it and they also have non-technical engineering experience. It's basically like a second step in the prompt engineering thing, right? So this particular person or this particular generative AI engineer, the goal of them is just to build generative AI apps. When I mean technical prompt engineer, they could build normal apps also in generative  And when I mean generative AI and non generative AI it is again a topic for another day, but just to put it in a simple lines generative AI is nothing, but it is using lot of data and generating things word by word from all the information that is it. And this other people could build something non generative AI.  apps also right so now let's not go to what is generative AI and stuff like that which is very technical but generative AI engineers are the ones who build gen AI apps or any basic AI apps with generative AI specifically without using a lot of code in it. So if you are someone who know little bit of coding but don't want to go very in depth generative AI engineering is the best choice that you could have.  You need to have little bit of data science, little bit of Python, little bit of everything, but lot of prompt engineering experience in non-technical field and lot of research experience. You have to have knowledge of lot of AI tools and understand how these are connecting, how these APIs are being connected and stuff like that and that's it.  You will be using APIs of freely available platforms, you will get it, stitch it with some other backend no codes as tools and all that stitching makes you a generative AI engineer that is it. To sum up non-technical engineers are the AI engineers.  app users. Generative AI engineers are the AI builders, but very basic. Technical prompt engineers are the ones who build advanced AI apps and this generative AI and technical prompt engineering people should also know non-technical engineering to an extent so that they will do the job faster. So, now with freedom with AI what we are trying to do is  We are teaching you non-technical prompt engineering and generative AI engineering. So, we are also launching Python course in a month or so. So, obviously, you will be able to connect the things and stuff. We already taught you how to build chatbots and how to build small, small apps and stuff like that. We are doing caption projects. So, from all that you will be able to even be a generative AI engineer. But to become a technical prompt engineer, this is not the platform. The reason being is you need to learn data science.  with NLP specialization which takes approximately one to one and a half year which is like a whole another sea that people that's 2.5 lakhs to 10,000 to 20,000 dollars also just to get very in depth into that. We have very few resources in the market to get there and stuff like that very like in India maybe 10 companies does that in a very quality way. In the future maybe three to six months down the line we will be also launching technical prompt engineering course with  data science and NLP specialization which could take maybe 3 to 6 months down the line if you all want just comment down we we want technical prompt engineering course also in the comments maybe we get a lot of comments we can consider that, but for now we are teaching you first two things non-technical and generative AI.  In the future, I'm sure we'll be launching that technical foundation course. If there is a huge demand in the market, that's for now. And in the next video, we'll discuss some of the topic. If you have any doubts, feel free to attend English appeal calls. That's it. Just if at all you have any thoughts, feel free to comment things down below so that other people will understand from your thoughts. That's it. Thank you guys. Bye. Bye. 

Module8: How to use Mega prompts Library
Hey everyone, this is Avinash back with another video in this video. Let's talk about mega prompts. Okay, so mega prompts are nothing but the prompts that are so big and have more context to give to the platform LLM or any chatbot so that it understands exactly what we have in our brain. So that's mega prompts and more about mega prompts are already there in them, you know,  are already there in this is very basic level 7 standard definition, but the more better definition you will find in the prompt engineering course, but then more than defining mega from the whole video. The context of this video is very simple. I just wanted to show you that this is our library of 500 plus prompts and we'll keep adding more and more prompts.  So when you click on any of this thing, you know, you'll go to that particular, you know page and you'll just see if you want to write a blog post describing the value preposition as a category. This is the prompt one. You'll just copy paste entire prompt by changing things  in the square brackets. You need to insert your topic. You need to describe your target audience Etc. So whatever there is in the square bracket, you should actually replace it with your own context and scenarios, right? So once you have prompt one, you might find it is a prompt to sometimes you have four or five prompts also in this case, you have prompt 3 prompt 4 prompt 5.  So so this whole thing is just to execute one task, which is writing a block post on value preposition, right? So SEO optimized block post is H1 or it might be a category inside a category. You might be finding different elements or different components in the category to do the same task, but with a different context.  and just like landing page landing page you might need a e-commerce landing page you need a no structure in the prompt or something and then you need a structure in the prompt you know basically there are three different ways to write the landing page it can be to the e-commerce or to the non e-commerce sites for the non e-commerce we have no structure and the structure for copywriting what are our ideal customers and you know blah blah blah blah we have so many you know things so  You just need to figure out what is your goal come here. See if you have a prompt just check this h1s marketing campaign and copywriting frameworks growth hacking frameworks e-commerce and sales. It can be if you want to build your resumes. It's you have we have prompts with resume business prompts analytics prompts and we have so many prompts including learning web development basics.  So these are the prompts we have till now and we'll be adding more prompts when we release the course called AI for developers in the next few days or weeks maximum, right? So we'll be adding more and more prompts giving it to managing it to kind of  give value to lot more career options and lot more businesses. So this is just to start with and there's not the end will completely give you more and more prompts. So these are we need to kind of go and navigate this way have maybe if you have  your say talk like this click on this so that you will get exact flow of this entire document and if you want to search something you can either press command F on the Mac or command say  control CTRL plus F on your Windows. So if maybe you need something for your Facebook as you're a digital marketer. So once you you'll have you'll have search and you will go to Facebook ads copy as your category and you can find all this and then just go and then you know,  do the thing that you need. So we're still figuring out if there is any better option to organize these prompts. But as of now, I feel Google Docs is the best solution we have to migrate it from a basic PDF doc a day ago to Google Docs. I had my team immediately shifted because few people said it's little difficult to copy paste on PDF. So we immediately shifted it to this Google Doc to make  it better so that's all for this video guys this will be also in your welcome series as we this is just the welcome series for almost four five videos still up and we'll be adding more and more welcome videos just to make your mindset and make your make just to make you feel that you have all the instructions to kick-start your journey with freedom with AI hope it helped thank you see in the next video bye guys 

Module9: Exploring the Power of ChatGPT
Hey everyone, this is Avinash back with another video in this video. Let's discuss more about you know, how to get started. So now let's discuss about chat GPT the interface. So now if you see I have a plus subscription, I take this because there are many benefits and many many better things that you could do with GPT-4 than GPT-3.5, right? So for example, you know,  you have something called code interpreter, which will discuss in depth for the coders out there. This is going to be better. But although it has just code the word code, it's not just for the coders. It's for everyone else. It's how you could  make charge equity interpreter interpret interpret sorry interpret your content it can be data visualization it can be code it can be so many different things so we'll go in depth in some other video it's just about showing you things inside charge of t4 right so when you see when you go to the plugins you know  that the reason why ChatGPT can be huge is because of the use of plugins like you just like App Store now ChatGPT has no.  a chat gpt store or something like that fade you'll be finding 86 into 8 approximately 500 plugins out there so you see 80 86 plugins from vidIQ to so many plugins you will be seeing here soon wasco plugin also will be available inside the chat gpt we applied for the you know chat gpt we should see how many days they take to get our wasco chat bot approved to be inside of you know  instead of chargeabt okay so so we have inside of 3.5 you just need to type simple things like say write me a poem with u o e m  with only words that start with a. You see that  You know, if you see this, you are getting some words that are not starting with A. Maybe it's off, maybe it's they, maybe it's displace, you know, right? But just see, let's just see when you use three point, just JarredWB4, let me have a poem which starts A. It's more creative. It strives its best to just use A everywhere it can.  See, so there is no other word very few maybe in affinity if you see just out of 8 lines maybe it used one act in affinity but I would consider yeah.  Most of the words are starting with a here. So the reason I'm showing you the difference between 3.5 and 3.4. It's just more creative. That's what I wanted to see and for the people who are using, you know, three four, but don't know how to use code interpreter or how to install code interpreter. It's very simple. Go to your settings tab and go to your beta features. You can switch on the toggle plugins plus code interpreter so that you will have this  on turned on in your the main section so you have your general settings you can just check your themes you can clear all your chart at once if you feel you have a lot of spam you can data control you can just delete your account switch off your chart history and training if you don't want your data to be trained upon  from chatgpt you can just toggle off all so if you are working for a private company or in any company that doesn't allow and very strict with data policy you can maybe switch it off and then you know do other best practices to you know maintain the best things with your you know  company right so now so let's discuss uh so i think that's all you click on it you just do it and you'll get it and one thing i would like to say is imagine you wrote 300 lines of or 300 words of your input but then you figured out you you saw that there might be a small problem instead of copy pasting everything and then pasting it here you can simply  use this edit feature where you can just change your word to be and save submit and you will get the entire input again so that this is little easier than copy pasting the entire thing especially for someone who is making hundreds and hundreds words of lines like you know if you are writing a thousand word prompts  You know, it's a little difficult to copy paste entire thing. Instead, you can just read it here, edit it, and then submit and again, and then again, it will give you the other output. And then if you want to say stop generating, you can stop generating, you can regenerate the response if you want to regenerate it. I know these are very basic, but we might have people that don't even have don't even know the basic knowledge because they never even touch the tool, but want to be a prompt engineer.  for them. I need to see and then if you want to share your charts, you need to install a plug-in called, you know, there is this plug-in called share GPT so that you know, maybe if you want to give that chart to us and maybe ask us for a review or something. You can just click on the share button and you can you'll get a link like that. You can just copy it and give it to us or even your friend for better understanding of the whole thing.  right so that's about it you just have this window you can insert the new thing and you can just scroll it off and then that's it like frankly speaking there is it's self-explanatory and very easy to use Sharjah PT.  So now many of you might have a question that should I take GPT-4 what are the uses and stuff like that. I showed you just some small practical example like if GPT-3.5 is not following our instructions for 8 times in 8 lines by using different word other than starting with a GPT-4 only used once. So it's a lot better in that way. So I'll also show you a few more differences. So  GPT claims that, I mean like ChartGPT or OpenAI claims that GPT-4 is 10x more powerful than GPT-3.5. Then parameters value. Remember in the master class I told you what are parameters. Parameters are nothing but ChartGPT or OpenAI saying that generative AI algorithm inside transformers. It's just saying that  different ways to comprehend the data they're already giving it's just like okay this is this this is that you know you should do this you should do that they are like instructions the more instructions openai gives to the you know algorithm the better performance it gives as output so  175 billion parameters were used for 3.5 whereas more than few trillion parameters were used for 4. So it's it's almost 10x more parameters and of course 10x more data all that and then it's multi-modal functionality. So ChatGPT right now as of today might not have an ability to read images and stuff like that, but it was created to  you know read your images and Kind of understand images also it can understand images it can understand videos in very near future Maybe with the update of 4.5 or something before 5 they actually need to release it with 4 itself But maybe I don't know what issues they faced in you know losing it But then they just said that it will be released with 4.4 or 4.5 or something like that maybe in the next update  So, it is a multi model functionality. So, it can read images, videos and understand images and videos and so that it can give the better understanding and give us the better output and memory expansion. So, ChatGPT 3.5 only remembers the last say  8,000 words you gave whereas GPT-4 remembers the last 64,000 words you gave inside a chat window. Chat window is nothing but just this window like, you know, if you see any content say I just asked what should I create an online course what should I say the induction and it gave me these other things you could say in your induction class and you know, maybe if I could  if I ask more and more questions the chart goes to so much deep. It remembers the last usage of 64,000 words, which means a lot approximately like a book or a couple of books kind of a size. So yeah, so so you might be thinking what's the use of chart GPT remembering more things. The thing is having knowledge and having memory are slightly different in this case.  chart GPT having knowledge about any topic in the world to a very deep extent.  is its knowledge but then memory about your context what are you asking for and you might be given a role at the beginning act as mathematician and you're asking all the complex topics and then it's after 10 000 words it might forget that it's a mathematician the role you gave as a mathematician and suddenly uh you know behaves something like a new person so that shouldn't happen right so for that reason  Having more memory, you know, is always the better for ChargPT. So that's the memory expansion thing. And also ChargPT has multiple languages. It can even write in Telugu, Hindi and few Indian languages along with other international languages like French, German, Spanish with 25 other languages additional to English. So ChargPT 4 is just better than ChargPT 3 when it comes to multilingual proficiency.  and stability it's just stability is nothing but it's just so good you have more control to your responses and you you can expect it to be more creative and more comprehend you can expand you like when you give input it can comprehend in your input in a very detailed and a better way so that's the power of gpt4 when you compare with 3.5  and search capability with 3.5 you can't search or browse from the internet but with 4, GPT-4 you can search from the internet so that the data from 3 point like after 2021 is also accessible and you can ask in recent questions but for only limited amount of time now they removed this browsing feature even for 3.4 users like even for GPT-4 users  You know, they used to be another feature here where default code interrupter browsing and then plugins, but then they just deleted the browsing feature temporarily because of some reasons they might be facing right now, but eventually you will get it back.  So all these features code interpreter plugins or browsing feature or extra capability is not there in this free version 3.5, which is only available in 4. So yes, if you ask me that can't I use some free alternative you can but you will not get this option to use plugins anywhere else as of today.  and maybe also code interpreter. Apart from that you can get the browsing feature and default feature directly but everything else you can only get in point GPT-4.  And quite frankly plugins are actually wonderful. So if you are someone who can afford $20 per month and don't mind wasting $20 once just to test it out and see it for yourself. I would highly highly recommend you to do this. And if you're a student or in a very low paying job,  start your journey with 3.5 and eventually when you're super comfortable then take GPT-4 once you complete the whole course which is AI blueprint and then complete after completing prompt engineering. Okay. So I guess that's all I just wanted to show  the whole overview of chart gpt and explain you the differences between 3.4 and 3.3.5 and gpt 4 gpt 3.5 and gpt 4 and that's it so i am not going in depth because we have so many in-depth videos coming in the future that's it for this video folks see you in the next video bye 



course 2:  FREEDOM WITH AI Blueprint
Module 1: Foundations of Artificial Intelligence

	1.Foundations of Artificial Intelligence:
		Hey everyone, this is Avinash back with another video. In this video let's talk about foundations of artificial intelligence and the first video will be about the history and evolution of AI. Although it may seem like AI is like a new technology but it's actually not. It's 100 year old technology but the biggest progress happened in 1950s though but there are things about AI in 1900s.  So, birth of AI happened between 1950 to 1960, a foundation period, that's the foundation period that AI emerged and marked significant milestones. Be it creating mathematical problems, be it creating a learning program, it all happened in 1950 and 1956. So, these achievements laid the groundwork for the advanced AI systems that we are enjoying right now.  And AI matured between the period of 1957-1979. The late 50s through 1960s was the time of creation from programming languages that are still in use of books and films that explored the idea of robots. AI became the mainstream idea quickly after that, you know, films and movie phenomenon.  The 1970s showed the similar improvement such as first anthropomorphic robot being built in Japan to the first example of autonomous vehicle being built by engineering grad students. However, it also is a time of struggle of AI research as US government showed very little interest in contributing to fund AI research back in those days and bloom of AI.  1980 and 1987, between those years, we saw a rapid growth of interest in AI and was labeled as AI Bloom, right? So this came from both breakthroughs in research and additional government funding to support the researchers. So deep learning techniques and the use of expert systems, use of expert system became more popular, both of which allowed computers to learn from the mistakes and make independent decisions.  present-day AI.  This period from 1993 to the present day saw the introduction of first AI system that could beat a world chess champion, the first Roomba and first commercially available speech recognition software on Windows computers. So many developments. The surge in interest was followed by a surge in funding for research which allowed even more progress to be made.  The most recent development in AI was popularized in popularized deep learning and big data So and then the recent phenomenon chat GPT Was like iPhone moment for AI right so Chat GPT is where the whole  world got to know about AI and AI went to masses. The reason you and me are talking inside this membership, the whole reason the community exists is because of ChatGPT, not AI actually. AI is famous. Corporates are using AI for decades right now. Netflix, Facebook, YouTube, every big corporate used AI in the last few decades.  But the only difference right now, the only difference you and me are talking about AI is ChatGPT made the technology public and made it to reach the hands of common man like you and me. That's the difference.  AI quickly from corporates came to the hands of humans like common man like you and me and this is where we are taking advantage right now. If every common man has ability to create something huge using AI, that's when we call it as a democracy, democratizing the AI technology. That's exactly happened by ChargeGBT as of now.  and chargpt or gpt4 chargpt is the company's name and gpt4 is the technology they are using and this is not something that was created just recently gpt1 was created with 117 million parameters in the year of 2018 and 2019 we saw gpt2 with 1.5 billion parameters 10x and in 2020 we saw gpt3 100x with 175 billion parameters  and in GPT-4 happened in 2023 with 100 trillion parameters almost 10x so every time a new update is coming that the parameters are you know almost 10 to 100x right so the development is so rapid from 2018 to 2023 this five years can be the golden phase of  the mankind not even the history of AI but it can be the golden period of history of mankind it can be like that right so yeah now we can see the fight between Google and Microsoft heating up and let's see how it goes and the future of AI like as you saw my you know masterclass previously  There is no industry in 5 years down the line, there is going to be no industry 5 years down the line that will not have AI in it. It's like if you don't know how to use AI, you will be redundant.  You will not have jobs. AI will be everywhere. It's not from robots to vehicles to softwares to every innercy. We should embrace it and have leverage over it.  That's it guys. So I hope knowing this history is very important just like to know anything in depth and predict the future we need to know the history. In the same way learning about AI's history is something we should all do. I hope this added value. See you in the next video. Thank you.

2. LLM, NLP & How They Work:
	Hey everyone, this is Avinash, back with another video. In this video, let's talk about LLM, NLP and how they work. Right? So let me quickly share the screen with you all. I hope you all can see the screen. So firstly, LLM. As everyone knows, LLM stands for Large Language Model. And the reason we call it as a LLM, not AI model, despite it is just an AI model, we just call it as Large Language Model for two reasons.  Number one is it was fed with very large amount of data. It's an AI model, but this time this model was fed with super high large amount of data. That's number one. Number two,  This massive amount of data is fed to generate very human-like language and text. So that's the very reason why we call this AI model as a large language model. It refers to a type of artificial intelligence.  artificial intelligence that uses massive amount of data to generate human-like language and text. Right? So, think of it as a algorithm. Into this algorithm, we feed super massive amount of data just so that this algorithm could process all the information, figure out patterns and make those patterns into parameters and use those parameters to kind of  understand what humans are talking so that whenever humans ask some question it from its knowledge base it could answer all of the humans answers. So that's the very reason why we invented large language models and they are all commonly used in applications such as chatbots, language translations, content creation,  and whatnot. We're using so many large language models ourselves these days like Google barred, you know, anthropic, you know, cloud two, and we're also using chat GPT, the most famous large language model in the world right now. So yeah, these are the few examples of large language models, and how large language models work. Necessarily, it just worked like any other AI model, which has foundation model in between into this foundation model, we take  any kind of data sometimes you take only one type of data and sometimes you take different types of data like it the data format can be in the text images speech it can be structured data it can be 3d signals etc so we take all this data and feed this to foundation model and to this foundation model this foundation model will understand  and figure out patterns from the data humans give in this training process. Once they find out patterns, they observe the patterns and make those patterns as parameters or rules that they need to kind of... Parameters are nothing but the conclusions from all the observations, you know, foundation model did. Using these conclusions, these foundation models will be adapted to do all those human tasks like question answering, sentimental analysis,  information extraction, image captioning, object recognization, etc. Right? So that's how the large language model works. Let's see one example of how large language models work.  So, imagine we wanted to create a chatbot that is like a medical kind of a medical GPT where we wanted to revolutionize the healthcare department by creating personalized medicine, drug discovery, clinical trials, whatever. So, that is like our end goal and to create a medical GPT.  First, we need to pick foundation model. It can be any foundation model. Foundation model is nothing like a mission learning algorithm. That's it. You take one mission learning algorithm and feed in the data. And the sources of the data in this case could be care providers, institutions, pharma companies, insurance companies, wearable sensors, just like this Apple Watch, or publication, you know, medical forums like, you know,  It can be a blog or something like that related to, you know, medicine or medical industry. And the modalities can be anything. It can be image, video, crafts, tables and text, time series or sequences or genomics.  the modalities can be anything the sources can be from this particular sources. So now team of data sourcing teams will go and get the data and process the data which will understand in the coming slides how they process and stuff like that. So they take the data and process the data and feed that to a foundation model and make that foundation model find out patterns  make those patterns into parameters or conclusions and use those conclusions to be adapted to do all the human tasks that are needed. In this case, it can be interfaced for care providers which is to help diagnose, treatment, summarization of patient records.  and it can be interface for the patients to answer, to have the Q&A with the patients, it can be patients can get accept to care, patients can get the community health and prevention. So these are the few things that both doctors and patients can get from this particular model. And it can also be used to create personalized medicine, it can use to create drugs or clinical tests. So this will be the use cases to get  AI to do all this use cases, we need a lot of data to be fed into this for a machine learning foundation model. So that's how  LLM works and that's one example of it. Now, the next thing, the next buzzword is NLP. So NLP stands for Natural Language Processing. It helps computers understand what we are saying and respond in a way that makes sense to us. Right? So, you know, imagine you're saying apples, oranges and eggs are healthy for humans.  So, this is the statement that we gave as humans, but computers or this foundation algorithms kind of do not understand this without any context. So, to create context we go to AI models and kind of say that hey this  is a sentence related to health. So they'll just say hey sentence they'll get a tag sentence called health and they'll say apple is a healthy fruit and then they'll create a tag where they'll say fruits and they enter apple in that particular tag. They will say eggs and they'll just enter kind of food can be a tag and they'll add it. So  To make computer process the data enough, we need to do this statting, right?  so that we are structurizing the data right so once we structurize the data we need to do multiple other things so that computer would understand what humans were talking and when humans go back and ask any question computers will be able to understand I know this is just like a definition is what you understood but you will not be able to understand how this process works and for that reason we have this okay so  How this whole process works is it happens in like say four steps Basically, the first step is collecting massive amount of data That is used to do all this training or pre-processing of that particular data. The second step is training or Pre-processing you can call that anything like few people try to say training and I prefer to say it as a pre-processing but you know both were seen so what we need to do is we need to do labeling and  Humans label this data with language rules and teach it NLP techniques. Just before we go to algorithms and feedback steps, let's just explain what happens in the training process.  So we get the data and then we label the data. Right. What you know as I told labeling is nothing but tanking and giving that particular each word a category and context. That's the labeling. Second step is embedding. Embedding is like taking all the similar words into one bucket and creating different buckets.  so that it will be handy for AI to kind of search relevant words like all all the vegetable you know words can be in one particular bucket and all the fruits can be in the other bucket or it happens like that so with the mass in the massive amount of data they will just collect all the words and humans need to collect and make the relevant words into different buckets so that it will be  handy for AI to kind of find relevant words easier. One, labeling. Two, embedding. Three is tokenization. So tokenization is nothing but giving the whole word a number.  Right? So, imagine we have 1000 unique words in our, let's say, 10,000 word article or 10,000 words worth of data that we need to pre-process. So, we go to this particular AI and particular software and ask, hey, these are the 1000 unique words, label each one of them with a unique number starting from 1 to whatever, like, you know, requirement. In this case, if it is 1000, it can be 1 to 1000.  So every unique word will be given as a unique number. The reason why we need to give it as a number  is simple. Computers don't understand, you know, these words. They only understand numbers. And these numbers will again be processed into 0 or 1. This is a whole one step at a time process. So whenever we are using tokenization, we just need to convert words into numbers so that it will be easier for computer to again convert into  bits and whatever, you know, which I don't want to go and show you all that is super technical. Let's just understand. First, we are labeling it. And once we label each word, we're collecting like, you know, similar words and keeping it in a bucket. And then we're going and asking AI to kind of, we're not asking AI, but we need to do it ourselves. But we have automated software that will do the tokenization these days. So once tokenization is done,  That's when we use few NLP techniques. NLP techniques can be so many techniques. There are like hundreds of NLP techniques. But these three are pretty much common in most of the, you know, say NLP training or large language building or whatever.  So, once this three steps happens, using different NLP techniques, you know, it can be parts of speech tagging, it can be so many different things, right? So, they'll use few NLP techniques and make that particular words or that particular data into a better trainable pre-processed data.  that's it and then fifth one is one hot encoding where so and the fifth one here is one hot encoding so one hot encoding is nothing but converting those token numbers into into vectors and each vector having only containing the digits only 0 or 1 let me explain  So in the tokenization, you know, if we have 1000 unique words, we're just giving numbers like 1, 2, 3, 4, to like say 980, 999 and all something like that. But then it is difficult for a computer to convert this into kind of binary at the end. So we need to again create one more step in between where we're doing this one-hot encoding. So what is one-hot encoding? Let me explain with an example this time.  So, whenever we have this particular sentence, I am Avinash, you know, in the thousand unique words, I can be 990 and, you know, I am can be 940 and Avinash can be tagged as a name and then it can be 100, right? So, it can be three different digits, right? You know, we're taking three different words from different different buckets and making one sentence out of it.  So we need to convert again this token numbers which is 980, 990 or again 100 into vectors in one hot encoding. What we need to do is we need to convert that token which is 990  the token can be 001 and then the next digit which is 990 first 980 is 001 980 can be 1000001 and then avenus which is 100 can be 1010101 right we are giving unique numbers again so  we will go to a computer program where they will convert this tokens into different again numbers but this numbers will only have 0 or 1 that's it. So essentially we are converting this thousand words  into different vectors and each vector only has 0 or 1 in this series. That's it. I am Aminash can be like 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 and 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.  So, all the digits in this particular series or the particular vector will only be 1 or 0. Why we are doing this is just very simple so that it will be easier for the further in the future to convert this into ultimate units of binary into just 0 or 1 in the future. That's it. So, first one is we are labeling the data by giving tagging and we're just  taking the each tagged category and making it as a bucket in the embedding session and then we're tokenizing it giving every unique word with you know unique number from any unique number and then once tokenization is done that's when we are applying NLP techniques like you know parts of speech tagging and they're like 100 different or 500 different NLP techniques we're just using those NLP techniques to  further process the data so once all these things are done that's when we do one hot encoding which is converting the token numbers into vectors where every single vector is just one zero every digit in that particular vector will be just zero or one that's it  So, this is how the pre-processing or the training happens from the data. So, once this happens that's when we insert that pre-processed data into algorithms. So, this algorithm which is again machine learning algorithm will  We'll just, you know, process this entire information using different things, which we'll discuss in the next video, which is how ChargerPT works or any last language model predominantly works approximately. So this algorithms will understand everything and can will will have a decent AI in a capability. That's when  After all this, the feedback steps come in. Humans train and fine-tune the model with reinforcement feedback. They'll just ask like, who is Mahendra Singh Dhoni, who is Mahesh Babu, who is... all these confusing questions and tough questions, so that they will just examine the algorithm and get the right answers from it. And once, if it is wrong,  they'll just give the right answer by correcting it. That's all. So once the feedback is done, we'll have an ultimate product that we need that would do all those tasks that need human intervention right now, right? That's it, right?  We take the data, we pre-process the data in the training step, and then we put that into algorithm, and then we do the reinforcement, and then all the tasks happen. The whole process is called natural language processing. And this process is needed to build a large language model like Chats Apt. You understand? Large language model is a final product.  And the whole process that happens in the backend to build a large language model is natural language processing. Understand? Natural language processing is how we build large language models like ChargerPT or Googlebot. That's it. So that's it for this video, AI Freedom Hackers. See you in the next one. Thank you. Till then.
	
3. What is chatgpt:
		Hey everyone, this is Avinash, back with another video. In this video, let's talk about what actually Charged GPT is and what can it be used for. Charged GPT is a large language model that consists of over 175 billion parameters. Right now, it's over a trillion parameters, but it used to be 175 in Charged GPT-3. GPT-4, I think it's a few trillion parameters.  making it one of the most powerful natural language processing models available today. It is based on GPT-4 and GPT-5, or sorry, GPT-3.5 architecture, and is trained on fast corpus of text data using deep learning techniques. ChargeGPT has ability to understand and generate human-like language, making it powerful tool for businesses and individuals like you and me.  We have thousands and thousands of use cases, but we'll just explore a few of them. Chatbots powered by ChatGPT can provide personalized customer services 24 by 7. You know, companies spend billions of dollars on customer support right now. So right now with ChatGPT,  Companies will prepare proper standard operating procedures and the knowledge base that GPT can just fetch the data on using its natural language processing ability. It can understand the documents you provide and answer questions of your customers much better than a human could sometimes. It's more patient. You can use it for 24 by 7. It's much more cost effective. The whole customer support  is going to be revolutionized maybe 1% of them will be still there if AI couldn't solve you know the call will be given to a normal human like me you and me but 99% of the cases AI can chart  talk and do everything just like humans and solve customers problems and content creation. Of course, Sharjah PDE can be used to generate content for websites, social media and other marketing material and not just it, it can even write songs and poems. Right?  So, using tools like Uberduck, we can actually use different musicians' clone voices and create songs, right? So, yeah, if you have attended my masterclass, I think I showed in one of my masterclasses about Uberduck tool. So, you can just literally go and create, you know, songs, music, any kind of content.  using GPT-4. Everything uses GPT-4 at some extent and they also use stable diffusion and all other large language models in the backend.  it can be revolutionizing the education as Bill Gates said in the recent you know five side chat with someone he said chatbots can be better teachers than any human could be right now and I completely agree the reason is so  So imagine, you know, in our childhood, we have a lot of questions, but we don't ask teachers because we feel it's not appropriate. But then with LGBT, you can just ask anything, you know, someone will create an education board, even I think Khan Academy is creating an education board that can  Just like be your teacher and your teacher will have access to your charts. You can ask any question whatsoever related to your education. You can ask, okay, I'm studying trigonometry, but where will I use this trigonometry in my future? Then ChartsGPT will ask you,  Okay, Sumanth, you're trying studying trigonometry, but what are your future goals? What do you want to become? You will say I wanted to become athlete or some runner or chess player. Then it will answer why you need trigonometry in your life for your future, depending upon that answer. So it can be very good. How many times we study something that we don't know the reason for, right? We study anything and everything if we need to get a mark for the exams, right?  but future generation will not read it like that. And in fact, Chachapiti can explain complex topics in a very simple way. In fact, you can ask Chachapiti to write poems or raps related to a concept so that you can understand it better.  Like it can read billions of words across the internet and can give you appropriate summarized answer personalized and customized to your needs in a way that you wants and you understands.  A teacher, a human teacher can never do that, right? Even now, ChargPT is much more powerful and you can ask any number of things. So yeah, for students, ChargPT can serve as a virtual tutor, answering questions, providing explanation and offering guidance on assignments. It can also generate personalized study materials and quizzes tailored to a student's learning style and individual needs.  For educators, Chargipudi can help streamline the administrative tasks such as grading, lesson planning and concurrent development. It can also serve as a research tool, provide access to a wealth of information on any subject on the planet, as well as generating summaries and analysis of academic literature.  If a teacher doesn't understand something, it can actually summarize it in a way that that teacher understands and so that the teacher can explain to his kids or her kids in a better way. Additionally, ChargeAPD can be used to facilitate online discussion and collaborate and collaborative learning experiences, create a more dynamic and interactive classroom environment.  So, pretty obvious. App development. I feel few years down the line there will be no company in the world that will not use AI to develop their apps. If they don't, they will be gone. As simple as that.  Right, it can be your jury assistant. It can be like ChatGPT could be could help You know jurors review case evidences and legal precedents facilitating more informed and impartial decisions in court cases like if you're a lawyer ChatGPT can help you in guiding your case in a better way.  because it read every law book in the world as of now. It can be a personal therapist. ChatGPT can serve as a mental health support tool providing users with customized coping strategies, exercising and emotional support based on their individual needs.  Chachapati can even interrupt your dreams, you know. It can be your interpreter, dream interpreter. You know, you can give a prompt like this, right? Like, last night I dreamt that I was walking through dense forest with my friends, stumbled upon a beautiful waterfall.  We decided to swim, blah blah blah. What could this dream mean? And then it says, in your dream, the dense forest represents the unknown or subconscious mind, indicating that you may be exploring uncharted territory in your life or seeking self-discovery. The group of friends accompanying you suggest that you have support from others as you navigate this journey.  Something like that. So, overall the zine suggests that you are going through a period of personal growth and transformation with the support of friends. It also highlights the importance of overcoming your fears and embracing the genius ahead.  a bit fun, right? Let's have fun with charity, but it's not just always for education, self-development and all. It's also for entertainment, fun. It can teach you how to be a good cook, can generate unique recipes by combining unconventional ingredients and cooking techniques, pushing the boundaries of gastronomy, right? So it can create new recipes for you because it read every single cooking book under the sun.  So now it has an ability to create recipes and you can use chatgpity to write your own recipes and wildlife conversation partner can be integrated into devices chatgpity can be integrated into devices that enable communication with animals such as translating their vocalizations or interrupting their body languages.  So AI, it will not take much time to understand how your dog feels at what point. It will be that easy. In fact, you can communicate with lions, wildlife, not even domestic animals. You can even communicate with wild animals as simple as that.  It can be, ChatGPT can be used to plan cities. It can even be political mediator. ChatGPT can facilitate diplomatic negotiations by offering neutral, unbiased suggestions and solutions to resolve internal disputes and conflicts. Maybe tomorrow, countries who are fighting can solve their problems using ChatGPT as political mediator.  It can teach complex topics like quantum physics, rocket science, in a way that students understand. It can be your time capsule curator. ChatGPT can compile significant historic events, artifacts, and cultural milestones, creating comprehensive digital time capsule for the future generation.  ethical hacking strategist which RGPT can devise innovative strategies for ethical hackers to identify and rectify security vulnerabilities in your digital systems. It can be your personal finance optimizer, it can be your trader, it can be no matter what industry you are in right now,  ChargPT will have something for you and you can use you can leverage ChargPT and 10x your productivity and maybe your double your income too and these are just few examples right so now the question is you saw all these examples no matter what industry you are in there will be a way or two that you can use ChargPT and leverage it or you will  You can use Charchipiti dedicatedly and make money. That is AI monetization course. You'll learn it there. But then the question is how can you use Charchipiti? You need to think of yourself if you are a digital marketer. Go to Google and see how a digital marketer can leverage AI as of now. Research on it. Spend 1-2 hours on it right now.  If you are an artist, explore mid journey, stable diffusion or DAL-E2 and go research on this particular topic. So since I can't make a dedicated video for every single carrier, but you can explore. I give you a thought that I can do anything.  So now you need to go search the internet to figure out what is the best way that you can leverage Charjyptee as of now. We'll cover few of things in the course, but not all of them. So it's your responsibility right now to go hunt for that idea to leverage Charjyptee to the fullest. Hope you found this video valuable. See you in the next video. Thank you. Bye bye.

4. How chatgpt will impact businesses:
	Hey everyone, I am Avinash Bhat with another video. In this video, let's discuss how ChatGPT will impact businesses. ChatGPT impact on businesses is multifaceted with the potential to revolutionize various aspects of operations across the industries.  Its positive impact includes streamlining customer support, enhancing content creation, informing strategic decision-making through market research, improving internal communication skills.  You know obviously as we discussed we can create a chatbot and we can clone real human voice and create a voice version of our customer support. It can create better content than 80% of the content creators right now in terms of text and image as of now and maybe in the future video too. And it can take good and informed strategic decisions and you should obviously be on top of it and you know navigate it.  And it also improves internet communication by writing emails. And then, you know, sometimes people don't know how to do the knowledge transfer to their colleagues. And this ChatGPT can help you in this also. So, yeah. And it can also improve the recruitment process. You can ask the right questions to the right candidate and soon someone will create a bot  where that particular bot will go on to the LinkedIn, read everything about his profile, the candidates, potential candidate profile, what kind of content he is consuming, liking, engaging, everything. And then this using NLP techniques and all can come up with few things that usually is little difficult to predict about, you know, predict about candidate.  and then according to his or her profile AI will decide right questions to ask and what not AI will already have all the knowledge to you know ask right questions and it can do that so thereby improving and hiring the best candidates by improving the recruitment process and it can do efficient data analysis  it can analyze data much better than we humans can because it's good at math you know it's good at math right and it can give you it can literally be a virtual assistant in many many segments in your business  So yeah, so these are like technically few areas, but then there are hundreds of areas that are like top five or 10. But then rapid evolution raises concerns also. It can have job displacement, spread of misinformation, ethical dilemmas, and then it can be spammy, people can scam, lack of accountability, data privacy,  It doesn't have emotion, creative... and I don't... emotional touch and creativity at times. Like, it is creative, because the way the Minjani is doing it, it's good. But then, it's not as creative as humans yet.  So, we should obviously not be dependent wholly on just Charged GPT or AI in general for our creative purposes and technological arms race. So, businesses must carefully navigate these challenges while embracing Charged GPT capabilities to boost their efficiency, reduce cost and foster innovation.  So if we say, because of these concerns, I don't want to use chat GPT, that is not a sensible idea, in my opinion. Although we have all this, these concerns can be addressed in a good way. You can take this in your back end, keep it in your mind, and then use chat GPT in a way that it helps you and you can leverage it.  So I guess that's it for this video, folks. Let's catch up in the next video. Bye bye.

5. How chatgpt will impact businesses:
	Hey everyone, this is Avinash back with another video. Let's talk about what current AI can do. We talked about what ChargPT can do. But let's see how what AI in general apart from ChargPT can do as of today.  So text to image, you might have heard about stable diffusion, mid journey and dally. These are the three softwares that are like very popular these days when it comes to text to images. I feel these are the only three softwares that are like on top and everything else uses APS stacking of one of these tools. I'm not sure. But yeah, these are like very popular.  tools right now. Let me show you one example of to describe the possibilities of AI. If you see in this video, you know, the way the artist created this video is like from six years to 60 years of a lady. She created one image for each year as she ages and then used another tool to just edit that video as a slideshow.  that slide show is little more you know in a flow right. So, see the realism in this particular image you know in all this particular images.  It's so real that it's almost impossible to say if they are AI generated. So just to think, this video would otherwise would have taken maybe 3-4 days of extreme hard work to complete, but then maybe in few hours they created it. That means people are getting 10x more productive using Text2AI.  Artists can be replaced if they are not good enough, frankly speaking. Like AI is so real, so artistic that  like better than 80% of the artists in my opinion right so i'll show you few of my mid journey things you know not everything but i'll show you few because we have a dedicated module called text to image blueprint in which we'll go in depth on them but for now i'll just show you few of my generations you see everything here is just human like AI generated  Like, to create these avatars from scratch, people, designers, avatar designers would take a lot of time. At least few weeks and then one prom gave me this. For someone who wants to create maybe next Marvel character, next Disney character or anything like that, it's so easy right now. You don't need fancy designers behind you or, you know, with you to create something very great.  all these images which are very very real frankly you know you see the background everything is AI generated this is the artwork which we generated to put it as a book cover for one of my you know books you know  something like this people would take a lot of time to generate all this so this is the possibility guys see the this particular person is not there out in the world  just created by AI, mid-journey. Mid-journey is so real that it's almost impossible to even say that, see the watermarks, you know, all that.  beautiful angle, male surf type, natural front view, extremely detailed and textured skin, morning vibes, Canon 5D Mark IV 85. We can even give like image, we can even say that, okay, this image should be as if it was clicked from this particular, you know, lenses. Photographers, artists are in trouble because of this. Not photographers, but at least artists. All this.  Right? Very real, right? The hair, the details, the texture of the skin, the realism is like on par with real thing, right? You see this guy? AI.  Yeah, so this is the logo of my company, Freedom with AI. The icon was created by AI. I just gave it, create a logo design for our brand, Freedom with AI, following instructions, design style. I just say what are the design style we need, what are the colors to be used, why we are using those colors, and then typography, and then we're saying image, you know, images, what kind of imagery we need, all that. And then it gave us the output. And then this dog is AI-generated.  Not a real dog. Gone are those days where AI generates bad faces, bad shapes and bad fingers. It is creating websites also. We're taking UI of something like this and putting it in other AI tool where it converts this basic image into editable UI. Right? How cool is that?  If you see this, this is an image of Jeff Bezos as an ancient Indian king. So, it's your just imagination and prompt a way to get any image you want with mid-journey.  My journey right now is one of the sophisticated tools better than daily doing most cases but daily you to has Separate use cases which will talk in our you know text image master session. This is just to show you the possibilities Yeah Text to video  We'll just watch one video. If you can listen this, this particular video is entirely generated by AI. The voice of the celebrities you're going to hear, generated by AI. The images, everything in the image is generated by AI. Editing is, I think, mostly 50-50 to 75% is by AI and then here and there maybe they use some editing tool. So, using that  You know, see this video, you know, inside this, it's directly text to video. Maybe they prompted, like Captain America cooking, something like that. They named it as Marvel, you know, MasterChef.  All these videos again by AI, they are prompting it and they are getting all these images. In the AI tools section, tools walkthrough section, I will go in depth on each of these tools and I will give you walkthroughs and everything that is needed and it's just like I am showing the possibilities in this video.  Tony Stark is talking, like I understand it's not 100% like Tony Stark, but then if in the last one year or six months all this development happened. Before six months it's not even possible. If in six months we saw this much of possibility, just imagine how much of a huge deal it will be in six months from now. Listen to this.  and my homemade Thai peanut sauce brings a harmonious finish to the dish. Just as I've designed my soup with the perfect balance of technology and power, I aim to achieve that same equilibrium in this culinary creation. I'm determined to win round one and ultimately the entire competition. Not just for the glory, but to prove that even a genius billionaire playboy philanthropist can excel in the kitchen. Today, I'll be cooking my stage of this competition.  They're creating an entire fictional show using text to image, AI generation tools. You know, all the food and everything. Yeah.  So text to audio. So this entire audio, this is one of the channels. So this particular channel, if you see, let's just play any tool, any video. Artificial intelligence has come a long way, and its potential is only the beginning to be tapped into. ChatGPT is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the incredible capabilities of AI.  Now if you see, this audio is generated by AI. You know, AI can create music. It can create same music. You know, you can write lyrics from Charge Apt, Insert Into a Tube, like UberDuck. Just listen to this.  So it is creating audio just like Drake's music. So it is replicating the famous people already.  Text-to-presentations. See this video. By the way, this particular video doesn't have any audio, so don't worry about the audio. It's just saying, Cloud Hub is something like a flying bus and something. And it's creating an entire PPT or pitch deck to introduce us for the concept. It's creating every single slide, and then sub-slides, sub-topics, everything.  And then you can rewrite few things if you need or it will also show you few layout options here. You see here and then you can rewrite the subtitle there.  just under a minute you have a pitch deck for a company a basic good pitch deck this particular tool is tome.ia if I am not wrong you will also have a good walkthrough about this inside the course inside this AI tools course in which we will show you just see that guys  Usually to create a PPT, a good PPT, it takes anywhere between a few days, a PPT like that, maybe a couple of days, and you're done in a minute. A basic PPT is done, and if you spend maybe an hour, you will get the exact pitch deck you need. I'm sure in a couple of years, an entire movie can be done from text.  A script writer can be a director. You don't need a cameraman, you don't need anything. A guy who writes story can just make the entire movie. It's possible, but still people will not do that. Only few people, few individuals will do that, but still there's a possibility that entire movie can be automated using AI. I'll just show you this video.  Jump in, geeks. We're going for a ride. Everything you see is air-generated. No cameras required. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to turn this beggar up. It'll be fun like the clouds telling you, baby.  These stains eat at your bones and drive your young mind crazy. But when you place your hand between my collar and jaw, I don't know much. There's no way at all. And I'm damned if I do, and I'm damned if I don't.  See guys, you see this entire a minute of short film was just shot  off of AI. There's no one but a guy who's writing the script and it's giving the video and the movie off. After seeing this, I started believing that tomorrow Netflix can just, you know, ask directors to shot like main shots and the main thing, establish the world, maybe introduce characters a bit. And then, you know, it's just like directors will create data to feed AI  so that it can create an entire movie for you and that movie can be even elaborated as a web series according to your needs and every single movie will have a different climax, different interval band. Everything will be personalized and customized to your needs. So that way  You'll not, tomorrow you'll not go to a movie or watch a movie and say that it's bad. Every single movie you watch will be good movie for you. Because it's actually reading you and creating movie just for your needs. Just imagine that. So there'll be no bad, there's nothing called bad movie or bad music that's going to happen few years down the line. Everything is personalized and customized to you.  It might be good for you and it might be bad for someone, but for you, it's always good. So that is the future. Apps can be built in hours. I built Voskobot. You might have already known it. That in a weekend. I didn't. My designer did.  who is like 18, 19 year old kid, just like me, did it. He's not even a professional developer. He's not even a basic developer. He just knows basics of Python and he did it on a weekend. And then maybe a couple of hours after every weekend, like for a week, and it's up and running.  People can create AI influences. I showed you my images generated from my journey. Influences are very good. So there is something called seed phase, which will store the entire, you know, essentially image will be recognized using that seed phase. You can just say, OK, take the seed phase. This is my AI character. Just change the trust of this AI character or change the location of AI character.  something like that and you will get you will use the same uh you know uh ai influencer or the same person but you can create new content and then you can build a story weave a story on this ai influencer and you know it can go viral right if you are watching a character in a movie as like that tomorrow maybe  real characters and AI characters will combinedly do a movie. That's totally possible. Right? You're watching Salman Khan for character, not like real, like if you, if Salman Khan makes a movie according to his real life, you might not be interested. But if Salman Khan, Salman Khan make a movie on Dabangg with some good character, he watches it in the same way. If you're watching Salman Khan's character in a movie, why not AI influencer or AI character?  I feel tomorrow AI influencer can have millions and billions of fans across the world for the story it created. Marvel characters are just creations. You are fan of  many marvel characters right so there is like i just happened to see this movie called guardian you know uh guardian of galaxies right like say guardians of galaxy or whatever like i'm not didn't watch i'm like i didn't watch most of this marvel movies but just went it with my friends so there is this character called rocket you know the name is rocket raccoon  you know this is a character which doesn't exist if you there are like that particular rocket raccoon has many fans so if that character has fans obviously AI influences and characters can have fans too so yeah my bold predictions entire movie will be made by AI in next few years  CEO of company will be AI in the next five years. The reason is very simple like AI can learn skills pretty faster, AI is not biased, AI is intelligent, AI can be many things. Five years down the line AI will be almost like an AI artificial general intelligence. So then if like you will have founder of a company and you will have a CEO which is AI.  and then it can be much efficient. I also feel in the next 10 to 15 years at least a small-scale company, I mean small-scale country, a country with less than million population might adapt A as a politician or PM. You'll have first level power and second level power might be a general human but the third level power can actually be AI or a second level power also.  So, it will not take decisions but it will just give you all the suggestions, it will just give you everything that you need in general and be a very high political advisor in the third level power of a country and you can just use  you can rely on AI as a good politician than humans because many politicians or not every politician is you know very truthful but AI can always be truthful AI is bias free you know free not right now but at least 10 to 15 years it will not have any biases it can take better decisions  you can rely and trust AI more than few politicians. So, yeah, definitely the boldest, but it's definitely possible few countries with less than 1 million population will definitely test it out.  You'll have AI therapists and you'll also have AI girlfriends and boyfriends. Definitely possible in 2 years down the line. Sometimes, there's an app in USA right now where you can create an avatar that can talk to you with the real human voice. The avatar looks like a real human but it's AI generated. You can talk, do friendship and then, you know, it's definitely possible.  It's like, you know, you see the video calling, stranger video calling apps. There'll be a time where you'll just call different AIs and just talk to them. Every AI character, every AI avatar will have different characters and different segments or different layers to it. And you just talk to them.  It will be cool, right? Like you're talking with 100 different AIs, just like people. Definitely possible. AI will cure deadly diseases. It can cure many deadly diseases because AI can read much more and have much more knowledge than real doctors. Doctors or scientists  combining their power with AI can cure most of the deadly diseases as of today, in my opinion. Maybe 3-4 years or 5 years down the line, there will be no disease with no cure. Every disease will have a cure and medicine will be personalized to your DNA. That is totally possible using AI because you, every human right now will have AI in his own hand.  Why not when why it's not possible  Inventions and discoveries will be very easy. Like very very easy. Like AI can invent itself, discover many things. You are just a chatbot conversation away. Like imagine if you need a vaccine for some virus. You can just simply have a conversation with some healthcare bot, a vaccine expert, and then it can make you one or two formulas and you can just do a vigorous trials.  And that's it. All you need to do is you need to give a good context. And that's not easy. And that's where prompt engineering comes in. That's our next topic for the next video, which we'll discuss. And combination of AI and Optus, as I said earlier, can be extremely nice.  In 100 years down the line, Neuralink or some product like Neuralink combining its technology with some large language model like Chargipity or anything which is famous then, will create a product as you will just insert it inside your brain, a physical product, a small chip  with a minute surgery, not even minute surgery, maybe it can be placed through a laser also, not sure, but it can be small laser surgery which takes maybe 15-30 minutes, everyone will have this chip, maybe  And then you are just a thought away to get answer. That chip will ask question or your brain will ask question to your chip and that chip will answer your brain real time. So that is much more productive. You know, every time you think something, you just need to go and search and then get your answers. But here you are just thinking and getting answers, thinking and getting answers. 100x more productive.  and then life will be thousands and millions better with something like that. Yeah, it has its own flaws, but it should be, of course, regulated in a way it's not affecting human beings, but that's definitely possible. Driverless cars. Five years down the line, cars will not have steerings. Everything will be automatic, everything is interconnected, everything is autonomous, right?  So, there's no possibility of accidents whatsoever. And then, if you want to drive your manual racing car or not even racing car, if you want to drive a manual car with steering with gears, you just need to go to racing stadiums or stadiums that were just built for recreational driving.  Just like we have recreational horse riding or horse races, you'll have a separate stadium to just drive your manual cars. Right? So yeah, I feel we are at a good time. Things will be automated. You don't need any more drivers anymore, maybe. And you don't even need to have a steering in your own vehicle. Everything is automated.  So that's what I think in five years down the line this thing can happen and no app will be built without using AI in some capacity in just two years.  majority of the companies or MNCs are already using AI to build their apps and this will be you know 90 plus percentage of corporates or app development companies will start using AI or not. Programming is just about having conversation with programming boards, expert boards.  and then get your desired results, your desired code, you'll just get the code, copy paste, test it, and then give it to another bot which might be expert in QA, you know, all that bugs, and then you'll go to another bot just to give some feedback. You'll have multiple bots in your own companies that play a role of different.  and on different people, different teams and then you can get things done faster. This is very, it's going to be done in a very near future. No company will survive  by not using AI. No matter what industry you are in right now, there is something AI can do to you right now. Tech jobs, coders, computer programmers, legal industry jobs, market research, teachers, finance jobs, traders, traffic designers, accountants, healthcare, insurance, media, customer service agent, art, music, video editor, digital marketing. No matter what,  you know industry you are in AI can help you and you can leverage it for good I guess that's it for this video folks it's a long video I know but then you should be convinced enough before starting the video that AI is something huge and before going to the next you know module of this course which is you know prompt engineering you should be convinced enough to start that now I'm sure you're convinced that AI is huge  And I am also sure that you understand basics of NLP, LLM and how this everything works and what is strategy 2D, what is AI, history of AI, everything was covered. We just need to now start learning about prompt engineering. We'll go in depth about NLP also because it's very important. And then let's see how it goes. Hope you had fun and see you in the next video. AI Freedom Hackers. Bye.

Module 2 - Prompt Engineering
1.	Prompt Engineering  Intro:

Hey everyone, this is Avinash, back with another video. In this video, let's discuss about prompt engineering. The buzzword everyone wants to know about. Like you scroll through five different AI posts these days, someone speaks about prompt engineering. Some say it's dead, some say it's, you know, it will be just lasting for a few years and some say, you know, it's already dead or whatever. But what is my opinion?  what is prompt engineering and how can you use this prompt engineering skills to advance your career and make more money out of it. Let's discuss all that in this video. So first, let's understand what is prompt engineering. Very simple.  Just like in software engineering, someone goes to a software and communicates with the software in a way software understand to get what some human need, like what we need. Like you are going to some VS code or something, entering a code, code is the language that the machine or the software understands and using that particular code, you are getting all your features out of that particular software. That is software engineering.  Here in prompt engineering you're exactly doing the same but instead of a normal software you're talking with an AI software or normal instead of normal code you're doing with a AI code. That's it. The best part is here the language AI able to understand because of all this NLP advancements is English. That's like little better for us. But yeah in technical prompt engineering  there might be like a you need to might you might need to code to do the prompt engineering but 90% of the times who are doing this course you are not going to use code you're just going to write simple English prompts into any LLM.  So just to summarize the definition, prompt engineering is the way humans communicate with AI tools or large language models to get the best out of it in a language AI understands. The goal here is to get the desired result. The goal is not to get any result. If you want any result,  You can be a ten-year-old kid and enter something into you know charge if it and you can get the answer But if you want the best decide output the most quality output LLM could give no matter what you if you want to get that That's where you need prompt engineering skills and the whole goal of this particular course is to teach you prompt engineering So before moving on let's understand  Prompt Engineering a little bit better. Few people say, Prompt Engineering is nothing. It's just communication skills. I agree. I understand and I agree with them, but only with 25%.  In my opinion, with all the research I am doing from the last few years, prompt engineering consists of three different things. One, communication skills. Two, using the right prompting techniques for the right to-do or right task. Three, is using the right AI tool for the right task. As simple as that.  What is the first one? Using communication skills like getting being good at the communication skills. The number one thing when I say communication skills is this. You don't need to write in proper English to make AI understand everything. You don't need best vocabulary, the fancy, you know, analogies and stuff like that. It can be plain, simple English. In fact, you can make spelling mistakes, grammatical mistakes,  or even talk in very bad English, like it can be even butler English, that's fine. You could literally, literally make AI understand. But what is communication then? Communication is not about speaking in English or spoken English. Communication is about putting your thought in a way that the other person understands. Thinking of other people's, you know, shoes is communication skills. That's it.  So, when it comes to prompt engineering, 25% of your quality output will be dependent on how good quality communication you're doing with ChatGPT, how you're formatting your prompt, how well you're constructing your thoughts in a certain way, how easily readable text you're giving to ChatGPT or any large language model. That consists of 25%.  50% in this particular module we will be discussing about approximately 7 to 8 different prompting techniques. So, using right technique, prompting technique at the right time for the right task is almost 50% of LLM usage like prompting training skills.  50% is just learning different prompting techniques and using those techniques at the right pace. No matter what or no matter how fastly AI evolves, prompting techniques will keep evolving with them and make it a lot better. Evolving is common, but then there will be techniques that you need to know as a prompt engineer, no matter how many years that, you know, this advancement goes, just like, you know,  anything, right? So 25% communication skills, 50% is about using the right prompting technique for the right task at the right time. And the third one is using the right tool. There are like different tools, Google Bard, ChatGPT, or, you know, just I'm talking about the basic large language models, I'm not talking to the niche, like, you know, mass LLMs. We have cloud too, we have Anthropic, we have different companies right now, we have Pi,  So, every AI tool or every large language model has a different use case or might be good at one thing and bad at something else. So, identifying and researching AI tools, researching AI tools and identifying the best ones for different use cases in your area is the 25% of it. 25% communication, 50% prompting techniques, 25% AI tools and we are going to cover all these three in this particular course.  This communication skills and prompting technique thing, you know, when in perspective of AI will be covered in the next 1015 videos in this particular module itself. And that AI tools we have a dedicated module where we're going to  talk about hundreds of AI tools, like we have a dedicated list of 300 AI tools, like with an in-depth research and stuff like that, you can go through it. And we have a walkthrough about each and every tool, like approximately 50 tools, if I'm not wrong, 30-50 tools, you can go learn about AI tools from that particular thing.  We have ChargeGPT, you can learn about ChargeGPT and all that, everything about ChargeGPT is here. And Majorni, Stable Diffusion and DALY, we have separate course, Extreme-Age Prompt Engineering and stuff like that.  So yeah, that's a little bit of context about this whole thing. And this is the beginning of your prompt engine name carrier. And one thing is in this whole module, you're going to have very complex things just wanted to be a little upfront things might be complex for like say 25% of you who are watching it. I urge you to rewatch  something if you're not understanding it right it's ultimately you might not understand one time so ultimately you might need to watch it twice thrice and stuff like that so keep watching twice or thrice until you understand the gist of it so yeah that's front engineering and that's how it is divided so before moving on I have one more point to say  Okay, let's let's do it a little faster. Prompt engineering is basically two types. Technical prompt engineering and non-technical prompt engineering. Technical prompt engineering is the prompt engineering skills that you need to build AI tools, to build tech from scratch in the large language model, to build something like ChatGPT, to do the fine tuning of ChatGPT. You might need skills like little bit of Python and data science to do this technical prompt engineering. But non-technical prompt engineering is where  you will not be needing any coding skills whatsoever. And you can still be a non-technical prompt engineer. So, what does this non-technical prompt engineer do? Simple. So, what these people do is, they kind of go  Now, imagine we have a team of 10 content writers. So, to lead a team of 10 content writers and make them more productive, we have one prompt engineer who know tangibility or content writing in depth and prompt engineering in depth. This particular person will guide all 10 people to write  articles more better faster and efficient that's all and same with the use case of say there is a VFX studio right I recently saw a movie director asking for you know a prompt engineer who knows how to use mid journey so that this particular person guide team of VFX artists in the VFX industry when you want some drawings and stuff like that you know it might take a lot more time to get an inspirational drawing you know inspire drawing to get inspired from to take your VFX shots or something  And it might take to say, draw 20 different, you know, diagrams, it might take say, five days to 10 days or something like that for a professional, you know, artist. But you could literally being an image prompt engineer who knows how to use mid journey could go to you to go use this mid journey tool and get 20 inspirational diagrams or inspirational shots for VFX artists in like five minutes.  So, so now, as a VFX artist, you might not know how to use mid journey yet, like, because they might be graduated a few years ago, but a new age, you know, people might know how to do image prompt engineering and how to use mid journey. So, these are non technical prompt engineers, like, you know, these guys don't go do the coding or anything like that, or they just  Whatever that they're already doing they will use AI and do it better and instead of doing their job directly They'll go lead a team of five to ten people and get things done. That's it So that's how the whole thing goes in the non-technical prompting ceiling category, right?  So, if you go to Google right now, out of 10 jobs, 4 jobs, when you type prompt engineering jobs in India, 4 out of 10 jobs are directly non-technical prompt engineering. 6 are technical prompt engineering where you need a little bit of technical skills, but even that can be learnt in a matter of few days or weeks. That's it. Like, you don't need super advanced prompt engineering skills. Gone are the, you don't need super advanced  technical skills to be a technical prompt engineer you just need basic because the goal is you are not building an app from the scratch you might have a team of developers under you where your job is to know the basics so that you could guide the team of developers. So that's the whole thing and even in technical prompt engineer you can either choose to be an entrepreneur or an employee in a company.  If you're an entrepreneur, then maybe if you want to build your apps from scratch and stuff like that, we have AI for developers course and AAA course where we'll teach you how to build technical and non-technical chatbots, no code, low codes, all that. So yeah, that's it guys. Two types of prompt engineers, technical and non-technical, both have huge demand right now in the market.  So, I know we went on and on different things and stuff like that. We first discussed what is prompt engineering and we also discussed the role of prompt engineering in the future technical and non-technical. We also discussed about this formula which is 25 percent of communication skills, 50 percent of prompting techniques and 25 percent again is of AI tools. The combination  is prompt engineering. So that's it. And note prompt engineering is a new and rapidly evolving field. As a result, the set standards might change and evolve as fast as AI is evolving. So that is the very reason what we're going to discuss right now is like an evergreen prompting techniques that will stay almost forever.  We are going to discuss zero-shot prompting and few-shot prompting. These two are very basic prompting techniques everyone needs to understand. And this few-shot prompting technique might be obsolete, but to understand the importance of the next prompting techniques, you need to learn few-shot prompting techniques.  the prompting techniques which I am teaching you is very well thought of and very well put of right. So, just learn as it is I could teach 100 prompting techniques, but every month 10 out of those 100 will be obsolete. So, I am only going to teach you the prompting techniques to be a better prompt engineer.  that are going to stay almost for the next three to four years as like as much relevant as possible. Right. So this prompting techniques will at least stay relevant for the next three to four years. And whenever I feel there's a new market research paper on prompt engineering, new prompting technique was out, I'll keep adding more and more prompting techniques as and when I feel there is a prompting technique, everyone  needs to learn and it will be useful for you. So it's that's it. So prompt engineering is not as complex as rocket science guys. It's actually about communicating with a mission which is different from talking to a human. To achieve the desired outcome you need to be very clear, specific and maintain the utmost clarity when giving instructions to AI. And yeah so that's what the prompt engineering is and I hope you found this video helpful and let's see you in the next video. Thank you.

2.	Basics of natural language processing (NLP)
Hi Air Freedom Hackers, Avinash back with another video. In this video, let's talk about natural language processing little in depth. You know, I explained to you in a very basic level in a concept wise, but then here I explain in a way that, you know, that is little more advanced. So natural language processing.  is a field of study with artificial intelligence that focuses on teaching computers to process and analyze human language. The goal is to enable computers to interrupt and understand natural language and to generate human like responses. Right? So, yeah, and then what are the techniques used in NLP? The first one is tokenization. Tokenization involves  Breaking down a sentence or paragraph into smaller units such as words and phrases, right? So if you see any large language models You know costing of this large language models, you know Depends upon the token usage. So token is like dividing  you know, bigger words into smaller faces or bigger sentences into smaller words. They divide it to an extent that makes sense a bit, but then they divide it because AI, it's easier for AI to understand it in an easier way, as simple as that.  So parts of speech or POS tagging. Parts of speech tagging is the process of assigning grammatical categories to each token such as noun, verb, adjective or adverb. This helps computers to understand the structure of the sentence and relationship between these words. Very simple.  So, named entity recognition involves identifying and categorizing specific entities like it categorizes people as people like few words into places organization in the text.  thereby it understands you know as little more better human language will go better and of course sentimental analysis aims to determine the emotional tone of a piece of text such as positive negative or neutral and obviously you need to understand the sentiment of input so that you will give the output accordingly right so it helps in giving more human like text  Mission Translation. Mission Translation involves translating text from one language to another language. This is a complex NLP task that requires computers to understand different languages and produce accurate translation. So it's not a very easy thing.  permission to understand each language and then translate from Spanish to Telugu or Telugu to you know English. It is a little complex because understanding just English and making it humanized is only the difficult part but then translation is like whole different level.  Chatbots and so these are the few techniques. These are not the only techniques like there are like maybe 50 plus or 100 plus techniques used in NLP, but these are like most important and basic techniques that maybe you need to be aware of so that you understand how NLP works. So applications of NLP, chatbots and virtual assistants.  So they use NLP to understand and respond to user queries in natural and human-like way. The more natural a bot sounds, the better, right? You will humanize with it and you will connect with it as simple as that. Text summarization. NLP can be used to summarize long piece of text such as news article or research papers into shorter and more digestible formats. You know, it's my savior guys, savvier guys, because  you know few years back or months back when I entered into this AI there are no fancy blogs or videos yet in the industry to describe the complex topics in a easier way and reading research papers are most boring things I can ever do because I sometimes feel researchers write research papers in a very boring way so that humans  estimate that that particular person who wrote is like very intelligent. The less understandable your research paper, the better, the smarter the researcher is what they think, you know, they'll feel like it. Then I feel it's, I don't know, it's not good, right? Like, how can you  Write those boring research papers. I am not a great fan of it. There are many tools right now which will touch base in the AI tools and apps section.  So text summarization is one of the best use cases of NLP so that it understands the whole context and whole scenario of the article or the newspaper and give it to you in a digestible format.  language translation. NLP is used in mission translation system to translate text from one language to another language. And also application NLP can be used to analyze customer feedback and determine whether it is positive, negative or neutral. This is useful for companies that want to improve their products and services based on the customer feedback. As simple as that.  future of NLP, you know, just to add on a point, remember all the survey forms and surveys that big companies ask you to fill after the purchasing of their products or service, that is actually a AI bot is asking you all this survey form  and it will automatically understand the feedback and give to the companies that if customers are overall happy or not and how much percentage of people are happy or how much percentage of people are neutral, things like that. So, future of NLP. NLP is rapidly evolving field and there is still so much to be done to improve the accuracy and efficiency of NLP systems.  Some of the areas that researchers are currently exploring include multilingual NLP. Developing an NLP system that can understand and process multiple languages in the same sentences. You know, sometimes if you are a non-native speaker of any country or any, you know, chatbot, imagine you are in USA, but you are non-native USA guy or USA lady. So you talk English, but also kind of mix the context of your native language.  You know, it's difficult to a chatbot which is trying only in English to understand. So if it is multilingual, if it is trained with multilingual NLP, it's easier for them. Thereby, big companies can serve masses and go beyond boundaries.  Future of NLP Contextual NLP Improving NLP systems so that they can understand the context in which the language is used and produce more accurate responses. Self-Explanatory Explainable NLP Developing a NLP system that can explain how they arrived at a particular conclusion or response, making them more transparent and trustworthy.  I think that's it for this video guys. I hope you enjoyed watching this video. We learned about NLP and techniques in NLP and then use cases and even future of NLP. Those are the four things we learned and see you in the next video. Thank you.

3.	Exploring prompts and their role in AI
Hey everyone, this is Avinash, back again. So, we discussed about prompt engineering and all that, but few might be thinking, what is actually a prompt? Like I never wrote any prompt. Trust me, you all used prompts in the past. Let me explain.  Hey Siri, can you describe the weather of Hyderabad today? No, it gave me this particular answer, right? So, that's a prompt. That's an audio or voice prompt. You're going to sign GPT, entering any input. That's a prompt.  And you're going to mid journey any prompt. It's a prompt any input. It's a prompt and You're going to ChatGPT and entering an image and asking what's there in the image and asking you to describe the image or something That is a prompt but here we're using image. So it's a combination of image and text prompt  So even for an extent, you know, just to give you an example, not example, but an analogy, just like you are going into a search engine and entering your search query, whenever you're doing it in a search engine, it's a search query. But whenever you're doing it in AI model, it's a prompt. That's all. Nothing fancy. People make it look like super  you know, complex or fancy, but it's very basic. And we have different types of prompts. We have text prompts, like anything you go to ChatsDB and enter in it, it's a text prompt. Any large language model, essentially, you know, like BART, Google, or sometimes even editing software, voice software, all that are text prompts.  the when the prompt is in the code format few coding softwares might need prompts in the code like written code in any coding language but not in a text so code prompts can be in the code but 99% of you guys who are watching this particular course will not be exploring code prompts  lot like you will be just giving your code and maybe asking it to write do the debugging or give some Continue the code or whatever that might not be actually a code prompt because you are not actually coding anything You are just using ChatGPT for your coding purpose that is also a text prompt But coding is coding prompts is where when you actually do the machine learning tags and all that in a deep data science background you might be using it only for one person at the people don't worry about it and  And image prompts, as I told, when you go to Chargibility, give an image just to talk to it, can be image prompt. And, you know, in the future, you know, there might be a large language model who understand X-rays or the standing reports better than a normal doctor.  right so that time you'll not be you'll not be you know asking a doctor to you'll just find a AI model take a screenshot and send it to you know a large language model because that particular model have read more standing reports in the world than entire  Like, you know, any doctors combinedly did. Like, you know, combination of 100 doctors would do. Although, I don't suggest that to be done right, but maybe in the future it can happen. So that, you see that scanning an image and sending that scanning report to someone, that can be image prompt. Audio prompt, the communication that you are doing with CD or anything can be considered as audio or voice prompts.  So those are like four different prompts I could think of to explain you but what's the importance of prompts? Basically prompts are how you ask a question and why they are important because AI is still not able to  understand what's in your brain without you telling it what's in it still there is no there is no neural link in your brain like 100 percent of the people right now watching in the next two three years might not have a neural link chip in your brain so as long as you don't have a neural link chip in the brain as long as  Neuralink right now is only able to communicate the human thing to the computer, but not computer thing to human yet. Once this is done and you get Neuralink, maybe that's a different scenario. But right now, prompts play a crucial role in determining the human behavior, the behavior of AI models. You give a prompt, you ask a question, you get an answer. You don't ask questions, you don't get answers, as simple as that. So they provide the model with a starting point for generating outputs and can be used to guide the model towards a specific goal or outcomes.  as simple as that and prompts are important to control the bias like if like writing a good prompt is important because if you don't write a prompt AI sometimes is not that neutral it sometimes you know can be even a racist sometimes it can be anything so to control that bias it's how good of a prompt you give even to improve accuracy by stretching that hey remember to do this adding the word remember is like  adding weightage for the next things to be done. Hey, do it compulsory. Be sure to do that. Refer to this, refer to that. You know, all these words, the weightage of these words you are improving is for the accuracy. And we will be also talking very in-depth of the words you need to use, sentences you need to use and all that. Don't worry. We're just beginning of the massive, you know, in the massive sea. We're not, we didn't even tasted a drop.  It's just a small thing. You'll go in there. So sometimes no matter how creative a person is,  if you're talking to a person who is super creative and not able to guide that particular person, no matter how creative that particular person, you know, you'll not be able to get the best out of it. So that's the very reason few directors get a flop songs or kind of a, you know, the actors will not be able to act no matter how good of an actor is if the director is not able to explain the scene perfectly, right? So that's why we see few of the greatest actors  doing very lame mistakes in some movies or maybe few of the music, great music directors will not be able to do best job for the few directors. It's like, so for the creative person, just like you do all the guiding, for AI also you need to guide the creativity, right? That's very important. That's why good prompts are important. Like any prompt, okay, but having good prompts are important to guide the creativity.  and also ensuring consistency. PROMs can be used to ensure consistency in the output generated by AI models, providing them with a consistent framework for generating a response or predictions. Pretty self-explanatory. To make your answers good all the time, or to sound consistent as someone, like, you know, consistent like you, like, say, you will not be talking like one person right now and that person another time, right? You'll be sounding almost consistent for a few months or years together.  in a similar way AI can be any person talking like any person sometimes it might be talking in shoes of one person sometimes it can be talking in shoes of other person so it's your responsibility to guide it in a certain way with good prompts so that it will give you the consistent results in a similar self-consistent way comparing to your previous outputs or something depending upon good results like good thing you know good output you know good good prompts that's it so yeah that's why  prompts are very important especially giving good prompts like prompts are not that important but good prompts are more important prompts 10 year old can go to chachapiti these days and type hey write me a story on spider-man you're getting a you're getting a great short story the thing is prompt engineers don't just ask that they give the context they give so many things which we're going to discuss in the next video which is how to format your prompt thank you see you in the next video bye

4.	How ChatGPT work
Hey everyone, this is Avinash, back with another video. In this video, let's discuss about how ChargerBD works. We discussed how LLM works and how NLP is used to build LLMs in the previous video. Now let's discuss one example of LLM. In fact, the world's most famous large language model, ChargerBD. So let's get started. Let me show you my presentation here. So how ChargerBD works and this is how ChargerBD works.  I know it might be super super super overwhelming for the most of you guys, but that's okay. I'll explain it to you as if you're a 12 year old in a most simple terms possible.  And by the way, if you have, if you, if we have any ML engineers or data scientists over here, I want to make things simple. So if at all, you find any kind of discrepancies, please don't mind. I know exactly how Charjabati works. I could talk three hours on exactly how Charjabati works, but I don't want to go in depth.  and we'll have Madhu in the course of AI for Developers who will take care of this particular explanation to super nerdy technical people. He'll take one whole 2-3 hour session with a full Q&A and explain how ChatGPT works in the most detailed way possible that was there on the internet.  So, but even for that, this video which might be for 15-20 minutes will act as your pre-training. Right? If you complete this, you'll get the gist of how ChatGPT works, so that you could co-understand that particular video better. But for non-technical people, you don't need to watch that video. This video is more than enough. Without any further ado, let's go.  understand how ChargerPT works. So just before anything, ChargerPT created a massive data center which we call a supercomputer. Inside the supercomputer, they hosted a deep neural network called Transformers. What is neural network? Simple.  Just like every human has a biological neurons in our brain, which takes all the decisions in our brain, basically everything that you are doing right now, because your neuron wants to do it, right? The more neurons that gets activated, the better quality decisions you take. The more neurons involved in taking a decision, the quality of the decisions will be directly impacted.  Just like that, you know, this neurons which were in the biology, like in our brain, ML scientists replicated or maybe data scientists whoever it is, replicated that human neurons in a computer and named it as a deep neural network, right? This neurons mimic human brain.  Right? And why we are doing it? As simple as like what to give the power of human brain to computer. That's it. So now, machine learning scientists created deep neural network. And that deep neural network in this case, Chandrapati created one form of deep neural network and named that type of neural network, this architecture as transformers.  Inside this transformers what happens is they take large amount of data and process it in the whole step-by-step manner. And how this processing happens? With parameters. With the help of parameters the whole data processing happens.  So, they take large amount of data from the internet, it can be from Wikipedia, it can be from Reddit, Twitter or any physical book or anything, any open source thing, right. Anything that is legally okay to be processed, they collect the data, give it to it and then before actually processing the whole data, they need to have parameters. So, they'll go  to the transformers and say hey transformers, I will give you the computational resources, but it's your responsibility to come up with parameters. Parameters are nothing like how to take decisions and how to process the information. That's it. So,  basically how to process the information so this is a point okay to understand this particular thing you need to understand this this this this this you know all these are parameters right so to understand the parameters what this whole transformers does is they'll just like read this whole massive amount of data and find out few patterns in it once patterns were formed  depending upon those patterns, they will have some patterns with weights. The more data  into a model, the more stronger parameters, the more stronger patterns, the more stronger parameters. To get to 1 billion parameters, maybe this model needs to observe and find out trillions of patterns, right? Patterns is nothing but, hey, humans talk in this way, in this situation. Humans do this when they get that, something like that.  So they have like, we have unlimited amounts of patterns, you know, we could find in basically one book itself, right? So just imagine the whole world's data, we have like trillions of them. And then from those trillions of, you know, patterns, they'll get one bad parameter. And using that  parameter this algorithm process this large amount of data it will get to a step-by-step but I am explaining what happens in every step like together what happens in transformers first data is being done second parameters are being finalized from the pattern absorption and pattern recognition from all the data it was being fed and third  It is unsupervised learning. That means there is no rules. Like Chachapati doesn't say to the transformers that, hey, when someone asks this, give that. No. It is just saying, hey, there's a large amount of data. You know the patterns. You know the parameters. When anyone asks, create answer from scratch. That's why it's generative AI, not detecting AI or classification AI or something.  There's not there's no rules. It's not saying do this when that happens It's just saying I'm giving you the data you're figuring out patterns and giving you the computational resources you have parameters just do what it takes to give the answer one word at a time from the answer you get from the question you have predict the best first word possible for your answer once the first word happens you  depending upon your question and the first word, predict the second word of the answer. Do the same for the third word, fourth word, 100th word, 1000th word, 8000th word and just do on and on and do that for 10,000 words. That's the reason it's a generative AI. Got it? The technology here is generative AI because it's generating each word at a time from the scratch with no rules involved in the training process. So now, we understood you know what  overall happens in the transformers. Large amount of data is being fed.  processing of the data happens because of using parameters and no supervised learning. So these are three things that happens in the transforms. So now that we know how the whole thing works, let's understand what happens in each step. I'll not go in detail, but I'll just again go explain this whole 10 steps in like in three points. The first when input goes, they will divide the whole data into  embeddings. That means, imagine this massive amount of data has like 1 lakh unique words. If I'm not wrong, there are like 1.5 to 7 lakhs of unique words in the whole English language, right? So, with the amount of data, imagine we have 1 lakh words.  which are unique words. They'll take this one lakh unique words into separate buckets. Right? All the similar words will go to one separate bucket. So that that's what happened in input  embedding the next one is positional encoding it's just giving tokenization right okay now that we we have one lakh words divided into say ten thousand buckets we're just going into each bucket you know individually and going so okay bucket number one is about names of vegetables okay let's give bucket number one  Starting from one, let's say if we have 10,000 or 5,000 vegetables, we're just giving 1 to 5,000 to each of these vegetables and going into fruits and then going into something, something, something like that. So every bucket will name and do on and on and on. That's the positional encoding. So once this all happens till now,  It's actually pre-processing stage. The next step after positional encoding is where the actual deep neural architecture starts. If I explain this to everyone, even very high-end machine learning engineers will not be able to process this and not  it's not actually necessary to be a good user of AI. So Madhu will explain how this whole architecture was built and you know how this whole thing works. Madhu will do that but what I will say here is they'll take all the data, they'll do pre-processing, enter the data into this particular deep neural network architecture  So that this will process the whole thing and give us output probabilities at the end of this particular step. You see here, it's output probabilities. What it essentially does is it just gives a certain  probabilities for each of the word and all that and stuff like that. At the end of the day, transformers process the large amount of data, gets recognized patterns and found parameters and then understand each and every word humans speak. So this is what overall transformers do.  Next is when the fine-tuning. Fine-tuning is nothing but humans coming into the play and asking thousands of questions to this particular model so that it will just test. You know, it's just like examination, you know, is happening. We're just conducting different exams like, you know, who is Mahindra Singh Bahawali, who is like, who is Mahindra Bahawali, who is Mahindra Singh Dhoni, who is Mahesh Babu, who is like, you know, Manoj Kumar, whatever. Like they'll ask like, what is this? What is that? They'll ask billions of  millions of questions in fact, and then correct them if model gives the wrong answer. So once we do this on and on for few months with the help of millions of machine learning engineers, not millions, but maybe thousands of machine learning engineers, you know, model will have a better understanding and it will just course correct itself.  Once fine-tuning happens, that's when GPT gets in. GPT is like Generative Pre-trained Transformer. So, they got using because this whole thing is called generative AI, I said you why it is generated. It is a pre-trained transformer, right? So,  Once GPT-3 comes up, the transformers is already pre-trained, right? So they were just having all this and they just input more and more data, you know, and increase the amount of parameters so that the amount of like the processing of the data will be better with more parameters involved and the more, you know, data involved, right?  So once GPT-3 happens, only two things happens in the GPT-4 or GPT-5 or GPT-6. We have all the network and everything in. What they do is only two things. They get more data from somewhere possible, like till a point where there's no more data in the world to feed this particular, you know, transformer. So they'll just increase the amount of data, number one.  Number two increase the number of parameters. So why we need to increase number of parameters very simple more parameters Will give us more patterns and more patterns or more parameters will just will this transformers will be able to understand nuts and bolts of everything humans see everywhere  That's it. So this is what happens. Fine tuning happens. GPT-3 comes in. GPT-3 is just like a graduation ceremony. Once GPT-3 happens, Chad GPT invented something called Instant GPT. Instant GPT is like humans in the loop model to improve factuality so that they can make Chad GPT-3 more grounded, less hallucinating, thus more able to become a conversational interface.  To just put it in a simpler words, InstructGPT is a step where we're taking someone super smart like GPT-3 and making them communication friendly. That's it. We're just teaching communication skills to just basically put it in a right word. Once InstructGPT happens, communication skills happens, that's when we have our hero, a new kid.  in the market which is chargeapt. This is how chargeapt works. Inside AI supercomputer they hosted a deep neural network called transformers. Into this transformers they put in large amount of data with billions of parameters. Parameters  we're not giving the parameters, we're asking to figure out patterns and maybe make patterns, sorry, not maybe, figure out patterns and then make parameters out of those patterns and then use these parameters to process this large amount of data with no supervised learning.  that's it so the whole transformers does this so once this all thing happens we get output probabilities and then we find tune each and every quote by asking like billions of questions or maybe say not being maybe millions of questions by tens and thousands of machine learning interest  Then GPT-3 comes in. So once GPT-3 step happens, next time whenever you want to upgrade the model, you don't need to do everything from scratch because it's already pre-trained. You just increase the data and increase the parameters. That's it. Once GPT-3 comes in,  The next step is InstructGPT. It's just like basic communication skills training. And then we have ChatGPT. That's it. I hope you understood it. If not, kindly re-watch it and attend any of the inner circle calls with your specific doubts. I'll be happy to answer. And I would like you to comment down in this video if you love my explanation that would increase my energy for the upcoming inner circle calls.  And that's it. And then if you are a technical person, understood each and everything and wanted to go more in depth on it, maybe in few days, Madhu will create his own video version of it, a bigger version and deeper version on it. So that, you know, you can go pretty much in depth on it. That's it for this video, Freedom Hackers. Yeah, Freedom Hackers. Thank you. See you in the next one. Bye bye.

5.	Prompt Format
Hey everyone, this is Avinash back with another video. In this video, let's discuss about prompt format. We discussed why prompts are important. We discussed what is prompt engineering. Now, whenever you go to the slash language models, there is a certain way you need to format your prompt so that you get the best benefits. Just like any language, right? Whenever you want to write a sentence,  you need to follow certain rules in that particular language certain formats to get the best meaning out of it or else you'll just feel you'll just speak in a bad language you know it can be Spanish it can be French it can be English right so just like that in this language also we have certain format formats we need to follow but the thing is  The format is different for expert to expert. Although I don't call myself like an expert or something, but still, I tried hundreds of them, consulted dozens of prompt engineers myself to understand their prompting techniques and then, you know, take the best format from them and, you know, understood and then experimented this for almost  one and half year before giving it to you all. So this works wonders for me, my clients and my students and I'm going to share that. I hope you should be super, super, super excited for this. Number one. Number two,  One disclaimer I want to give is this particular video is one of the most important videos of all the series in this entire series. So, pay the close attention for the next 30 minutes. Don't go for a coffee break. Don't go for anything. Grab coffee, grab some snacks.  switch your door off and just start only when you have 30 minutes of your time. Just 30 minutes, no distractions whatsoever, very important because you're not going to understand it perfectly when you skip any part of it or you're not going to understand if you like kind of  a complete 15 minutes go out and come again watch it, it will not be making sense. So very important might feel little complex also but try and watch it second time if you felt little complex for the first time and it's completely normal because I'm sharing something that took me that took myself one and a half year to understand. I'm sharing it in a way that you could understand in this 30 minutes journey. So it needs a lot of practice. Practicing these prompts are not that easy. Like writing these prompts are not easy.  so now so the format we are going to have is called mega prompt format what is it mega prompt format when you go to any large language models and when you write a small prompt it is just a zero-shot prompting with no context whatsoever but when you are a writer who can write mega prompts  you could use 100% ability of that large language model. So, a format in our webinar, if you attended our webinar, as discussed, it would have five components, five main components, which consists of task, instruction, context, parameter, and input. Inside these components, we might have three to four elements each, and you need to understand that. Don't worry, I'm here.  We have five main components. These are the thing of it as headings and we have more subheadings in this. So task is nothing but what is that one thing that you want that AI model or large language model to do. That's a task.  Number one, inside the task we have three primary elements. Number one is role, topic and command. Let's understand what is role, topic, command in the next slides. So, task is a component and inside that component we'll have three different elements and each one. Let's understand the role. This element outlines the specific function that AI should assume  in its response. Do you want it to talk like a lawyer? You're writing a law paper or some research paper or something related to law.  Given the role of a lawyer, like adding this line to start your whole task, imagine or think yourself as a 20 years experience Supreme Court lawyer in India and give the topic on the task. So, this word can give you the maximum benefits because this helps to set the tone and approach of AIS response.  That's the role. And the topic is the second one. This element focuses on the subject matter that AI should address, which can arrange from the history to technology, art, or any of other theme. By specifying the topic, the AI can tailor its response to the user's interest or query. Just give it a topic. What is the topic that you want to take? As simple as that.  I'll give you examples guys don't worry for everything. For each component I'll give you whenever we have elements. Once we complete all the elements in the particular component, which is right now, we'll go to the examples. Command. This element highlights the specific action the AI should perform or the output it should generate such as summarizing, explaining or comparing anything. This directs AI response to meet the user's requirements more effectively. Let's get out of this presentation.  and go there so you remember this we have components which is task inside this components category inside this tasks category we have role topic and command example prompt this is the whole prompt is only one prompt guys and i divided my big mega prompt  to suit and fit into this each element. You must act as a world renowned CEO like Sundar Pichai. That is the role. In webinar, I just said, I didn't specify the elements, I just said the component because you might be overwhelmed. Since you completed the webinar and graduated from the webinar on masterclass, we're going to the advanced topic right now. The role is you must act as a renowned  CEO Alexander Pichai, you must act as 20 year old for experienced data architect to solve the below's problem and then you write the code. The topic is what are the some ways to survive in the company's runway is coming to an end. That's the topic. I want you to give me five main points on each of the following topics when I then I want you to write on each point. I want you to write on each point. So that's the command. Understood?  Task is like giving what you want in a certain way so that it will be easier for a LLM to understand what you want very easily. Right. Let's go. Let's go to the next one. That one thing is done. The second component of our megaprompt is instructions.  The instruction server component offers guidance on AI's approach to the task. Like how do you want AI to perform that particular task? Like how? That is instructions. The instruction component contains four primary elements. Structure, qualities of the output, content, and do's and don'ts.  That's it. Structure is like this element sets the desired layout or organization of AI's response such as bullet points, paragraphs or number lists. Defining the format helps the AI present information in a clear and easily digestible manner. Understood?  What is that exact structure you need if you don't give the exact structure you need you might have it in your brain But you don't put it on the paper or in the prompt you might you might X you might be expecting bullet points But AI will give you a paragraph which will be a contradiction So effectively you see this is how good you're communicating exactly what you need Communicating and putting it in a format. We still didn't go to the next part. We're just in the formatting part. We're not  Basically, formatting is like half of the communication skills. Like you have the perfect communication format. 50% of your communication part is done and then the other 50% is about basic English. That's it. Not like very high-end English. And then we'll go to prompting techniques and then we'll go to AI tools to complete our whole prompt engineering journey. Yeah. Coming back, this element sets the desired layout. That's the structure and then quantities of the output.  The element, this element emphasizes the characteristics of the response that it should exhibit, like being concise, detailed or engaging. By focusing on these qualities, the AI can generate a response that meets the user's stylistic preferences. Like, you know, you are a book writer, like you might have a very high end vocabulary like Shashi Tharoor.  giving that, hey, write this whole thing, like if this is a ruse vocabulary, use fancy vocabulary, all that, giving us quantities. Don't worry, I'll give you the example prompt for this also. Content. Ideas or points to be included. This element lists the key points or concepts that AI should incorporate in its response. This ensures that the AI addresses the most relevant information and stays on top.  Fourth one is Do's and Don'ts. These elements provide the guidance on what to do and what not to do to get the best output while performing this whole task. That's it. So, before going to that, let's go to the format table.  Output format structure, please format your response, you know, remember this site we are writing a basically a Article or a post about what are the some ways to survive in the companies and ways coming to end That's the topic you saw the command now instruction component format structure a format of structure And we're talking about structure  Please format your response in a structured manner with a brief introduction and separate paragraph for each of the five main points. So we're now giving an idea for Chanchabit to write in a structured, organized way, and we're even giving that structured. Qualities of the output.  Ensure the content is clear, concise and actionable. You know, I don't want some random, what should I say? I don't want some random things that are unactionable. I want actionable. I don't want poetry. I don't want motivation. What can you do? I don't want anything that is abstract. I want actionable. That is the quality.  and we're now saying qualities of output. Include real-life examples or case studies to illustrate your point. That's the ideas or points to be included. Do's and don'ts. Avoid using jargons that may be difficult for general audience to understand. Sometimes you could give more do's and no don'ts and sometimes you give more don'ts. It's depending upon your requirement. That's it. So let's go understand the next component. We have five of them and we're only done with the two.  The third one is context. Contest component sets the stage for AI's response by providing a background information and the situational context. Like, you gave what to do, you gave how to do,  you need to do the why like why AI is even writing about it the context components again contains three primary elements perspective goal and the target audience like what's the perspective what's the goal of this whole thing and what are the target audience that content is being written and by the way guys one important thing  This is the same format for almost all the entrepreneurs. You might be a content writer. You might be a technical developer. You might be anything. This video is the same format for every single one.  And I'll also see you why you need to use and all that. Just stay till the very end. Don't give up. I know it's so much of information might be complex, but if you're giving up, you'll never be a prompt engineer. And when you can't be a prompt engineer, all the goals you have in your mind, the very reason why you enroll into this particular membership might not be achieved. So  Finishing this course is the first step of becoming a prompt engineer. Trust me when I say this, just watch once and when you watch it twice, you will kill it. By the way, anyways, let's get to the next one. So context.  Context is perspective, right? As a renowned CEO, adopt confident and authoritative perspective in your response. That's perspective, your goal. Your goal is to provide practical and insightful advice to help struggling companies navigate challenging financial situations. That's your goal or your target audience.  Consider your target audience to be business owners and entrepreneurs who may be facing financial difficulties. That's it. We discussed almost nine elements already and now we're going into the fourth component.  Component and element. Right. Both are different. Component is like a category and element is the subcategory that you need to fill in. Right. You just understand this. This is the component and these are the elements. All the elements will be in the some component category. Let's go. Context is done. By the way perspective I didn't I think didn't explain this but perspective you understood right. Perspective shapes the AI's response and makes it more relevant to the user's intention.  Goal, like by clarifying the goal, AI can be better toggle its response to achieve the desired effect. And target audience, who are the target audience? As simple as that. Who is that it writing to? Parameters.  Parameter components sets boundaries or limitations for AI to consider while crafting its response. The parameter components again contains three primary elements, word count, time frame, and resources. I got you. Word count, by setting these limits, the AI can create the response that it is neither too brief nor too lengthy for the user's needs or your specific need. That's like the word count, response length. You can give it in the word or you can give it in the lines.  timeframe. This element highlights any constraints such as deadlines for the task or specific historical period to focus on. Like when you are writing about the world war, something happening during the world war, you might just say that, hey, concentrate of this particular thing during the world war. The adoption of fashion  during the world war. Very lame example, but just giving you a perspective. This helps AI to prioritize its response and concentrate on the most relevant time-related factors. Parameters. Resources or references. This element suggests the sources that AI should  consult or cite in its response to ensure accuracy and credibility. Providing the reputable resources can enhance the quality of AI's response and support the information it presents because whenever it is referring to the quality output and that quality output is being bonded with the knowledge it already has  It is expected that you'll get the best output possible, right? So now the context is done. The fourth one is parameters. Word count. Your response should not exceed 500 words. That's the word count. Focus on the most crucial strategies and tactics that can be implemented within a short period to maximize the chances of survival. Time frame. If possible, include references to the reputable sources or experts that should support your recommendations. So you could take these resources or references in a two category, right?  you could give the reference or take the reference. Whenever in the parameters you are not giving any kind of references, you will give it in the later stage, but in parameters you are asking AI to refer to some well known people, well known sources, so that AI now has a  has a has a task to actually go find the references of reputable sources instead of just doing a normal search in the database. So we are adding a task in an organized way so that it will feel man this guy's expectation is like a lot we need to give the best out of to him. So consider the following step okay next that's like done with the parameters last and the final one guys  Stick in there, stick in there. Five more minutes. Input. The input component equips the AI with the relevant data or information to incorporate its response. The input component contains three primary elements again. Facts or figures, examples, quotes or testimonials. That's it. Facts or figures, this element provides statistical data, facts or numerical information.  information that AI should include or base its response on. By incorporating this data, the AI could create a more factual and informative response that supports the user's needs. So whenever you feel AI might not be factual about this particular thing, give the facts yourself. Instead of writing an entire article yourself, the entire output yourself, give the fact.  Give it. That's it. Examples or case studies. This element offers specific instances, stories, or examples that illustrate the topic or support the AI's response. Including these examples can make the response more engaging, relatable, and informative for the user. Give either. That's it. Quotations or testimonials. This element shares the direct code or opinions from authoritative sources, experts, or individuals that can reinforce  the responsible credibilities, just testimonials or quotations by higher authorities. Yeah, let's go complete the format table by the way. Facts, consider the following statistics according to, so basically what we're doing is, you're giving the facts yourself, you're giving the facts yourself. You're giving the case studies or examples yourself. Here, you're saying according to the study done by CB Insights, 90% of the startups failed due to running out of cash.  including this fact will give you the best response like it can ChatGPT can or any large language model can structure its whole content depending upon this. Examples are case studies. Tesla in its early days faced a near collapse just during financial crisis of 2018 but managed to secure a last minute investment from Elon Musk. We're giving you this, giving the example that. Quotations or testimonials. A quote from Ben Horace blah blah blah.  So, you understood right, quotations, testimonials and stuff like that. Input is a component where you are actually giving input from your end so that AI will take this inputs as a reference and build on top of it. That's it.  Pretty much. Let's now understand and kind of see the power of this particular prompt. I'll open chatgpt right now. Let's go. I'm using chatgpt 4. You could use the chatgpt 3 also by the way. Images are done. You could just literally share image and then get out of it. Recently introduced copying this part of this whole thing.  Like we just made an example prompt, just copy pasted each one of them into a single paragraph and then this is the whole. So now is where we'll get introduction. Navigating a company through the trenches water of financial instability demands acute strategic foresight and a pragmatic approach. Considering that 29% of the status quo you see, it included this example in a better way as a whole.  field due to the caste exhaustion as per CB insights. Understanding the execution pivotal survival insights becomes a blah blah blah blah. Here we'll explore five salient strategies. I don't even never heard the word of salient that have in the past proven efficacious for businesses such as Tesla during the 2018 financial crisis. You see, we gave the Tesla financial crisis. It included it in a very organized and cute way.  Instead of writing this whole paragraph ourselves, which would take maybe half an hour or 15 minutes, just writing these two facts and asking it to weave it in the content is a better way, right? It is now, according to our thing, give the five main points and then write on each. It gave us the five main points.  and we are writing on it immediate cost constraints and you see every particular point here to be very actionable immediate cost containment in the die financial trades trades immediate action to start the physical bleeding is in per  Dative oh god. This is like little advanced English for me, but still It's good right like I could literally add this word here write it in simple and understandable English so that it can be you know a better way write it in simple and Good English for for dummies like me. I need simple English. I can't understand advanced English like Sashitha Ruhl Let's see what what it gets  right? At least we got the rigorous cash flow management thing as a management intense scrutiny and management of cash flow becoming a pivotal when financial runways cut yield. Implement a stringent budget, cut non-essential expenditure and optimized operational costs. This tactic mirrors Ben Horowitz's emphasis on controlling costs in direct dire financial scenarios 3. Like this is the thing we could just cut it out and then  you know whatever.  And then it also gave us few references and then enacting a meticulous strategy. It's like a conclusion. We asked it to write a conclusion also somewhere here, right?  That's it. So, but, if we go give a simple prompt, what is there some ways to coming in anyway, like everyone do, we might not, because right now the chat jeopardy saw our response, now it can give a good answer. Basically, it's a little difficult, usually for the first time if chat jeopardy writes itself. Yeah.  So, the reason why it is anyway giving us little better results is it already learned about this year and then giving out here. Yeah, that's it. Basic right cash flow management, staffing adjustment, hiring fees, salary cuts, layoffs, flexible work arrangement, revenue generation.  Kind of basic with no kind of there is no juice in it like there are like points, but no juice, but when you see here We are quoting down few good names Here and we're quoting some case studies examples, and then even when we're giving something we're actually getting some answer This I would say 50% good, but still I don't think this is anywhere near this Right so yeah, and then conclusion. There is no conclusion also here like literally  Like this can't be an article that a CEO could send but you know when you when your boss asks to write a Message like this as a professional CEO would write, you know, if you go give this to your boss Do you think your boss will be happy with it? Of course not, but this he will be most happy with you all anyways, so let's go back this is the example and this is how the  This is the comparison basically between a good prompt and bad prompt. See now guys good prompts are very important and good prompts can be only achieved with the kind of format, kind of comprehensive format we gave. You might be thinking Avinash it is easier to actually write this myself than creating this whole prompt. I understand. I agree. But if you are a content writer, right?  You could have a prompt format from us and create a basic format like this and do it for 4-5 times despite it usually takes more time to write the format than the content itself. I agree.  But when you do it fifth time sixth time right, it is actually it might consume 25 percent of your time than the actual to write this prompt than to write this content because now you are very very ease at putting your thoughts in a format so that that format can be the best input prompt for the LLM and the same works for developers right.  Using our prompt format, you will create one mega prompt for most of the things. Like 99% of the employees don't do 18 different tasks a month. All they do is if you are someone who is developing apps,  No, you basically have kind of two to three prompt format mega prompts that you could use for almost all your tasks. If you're a content writer, one format like this, one mega prompt like this will give you as reference for every single article. You just spend your time in creating one, two or three mega prompts depending upon your use cases and you can reap the benefits of this mega prompts forever.  And the best part is, I'm sure so many people can't write this kind of advanced article just themselves. They need to do lots and lots of research. Either they need to have the touch with 10-20 years of experience.  Or they need to research for like a week or like five days just to get this five main points, which is not the case with here. Like you're spending maybe half an hour to write this whole prompt. And what is a prompt? It's just clarity of thought, right? If your thought is very good in clarity, you're just putting your thought in a prompt and getting out. That's all. And that is the prompt format.  understand so yeah and it should be very very useful for most of you guys no matter what carrier you belong to developer an editor or a web developer or maybe a content writer or a lawyer or someone this prompt format should be your bible put it out print it out in your put it on your table  just follow the format right so this is a easier way to put your thoughts on your prompt usually we have all this like you know this format doesn't give you any info or like you know exact information like you know the end output it is giving you a format and you might know what is the role that might be good for this particular output but then you might miss it it might be your checklist and  so that sometimes you don't know that this element should be put so I am giving you an option you just put your thought out and get the best results and developers this is going to be wonderful for you all and finally to close this whole thing this format table will be there don't worry in the description below and one thing I want to close this on  before 30 minutes as I discussed is this. So, what happens is we have like almost if I am not wrong say 15 elements approximately or 12-15 elements in this particular form format.  Try to incorporate as many elements as possible in your prompts right to get the best output. But not always you need all 12. If you could have 7 to 10 of them like you know minimum is 7 guys like if you're not even having 7 elements of this what we mentioned in this particular format out of 12 you will not be reaping the best ability from that particular format in my opinion.  Like 100% of the times, maybe 10 to 20, 30% of the times, you might feel, hey man, like with two elements or three elements, I'm getting the same out of 12. But that might not be consistent. Like sometimes LLM work and sometimes don't. And you want it to be consistent, right? So having a format table as a reference with one or two mega prompts, which you'll just edit it for all your tasks, is a better idea to be a professional prompt engineer to do your own tasks in your own career.  like you could be a Prompt Engineer and do like you know take Prompt Engineering in your own career to advance your career or be a Prompt Engineer specially just be a Prompt Engineer and then help someone in in your own anything it can be  image prompt engineering you help VFX artist or any kind of artist you can be a like text prompt engineer or someone like who knows you to use Chattopadhyay go write kind of lead a team of content writers who can be a content writer or you can lead a team of content writer with your prompt engineering skills so no matter what there are two options when we're just saying you out but then end of the day this prompt format  is like a Bible for you, Quran for you, or Bhagavad Gita for you, or any holy book that you kind of, you know, read. But then just try and understand this prompt. And by the way, one actionable thing I want you to do is write a mega prompt for your own industry, for your own use case, in your own career, and paste that mega prompt for any certain task in the comment down below.  I'm sure not everyone does, but if you do, you'll be on the perfect tone to complete this entire course and be the world-class prompt engineer. And if you want to be a world-class prompt engineer, world-class AI expert, just complete all the to-dos I'm going to say in this video. That's it for this video guys. Thanks. Thanks. Thanks a lot. See you in the next video. Bye.

6.	Zero-Shot prompting
Hey everyone, this is Avinash back with another video. In this video, let's discuss about Zero-Shot Prompting. This is the first prompting technique out of like maybe 10 prompting techniques that we are going to discuss in this next few video series. Unknowingly, 99.99% of the ChatGPT users use these techniques at their core.  why it has lot of benefits, but it also has a lot of cons. So we'll discuss both pros, cons and all the use cases that you need to you can use this particular thing for. Right. So yeah. So what is zero short prompting?  So, whenever you go to chart GPT and enter any prompt in just one, two, three lines maximum without giving any context for any pre-trained data, that is zero-shot prompting to be put in a simple words. It's an NLP technique and it refers AI ability to understand and answer questions or perform tasks without having seen any similar examples before.  Right? So in other words, it can solve a problem without any prior training on that specific problem. Just to put this in an analogy, imagine you are learning to cook, right? You're recently married, or maybe you just went out of the college, went to the other state or country to, you know, kind of pursue your degree, and you've never cooked in your life. You're starting to learn to cook, right? And it's been six months that you're learning cooking.  You understood everything but you never made a juice, any juice, like no juice whatsoever. Right? But you understand each ingredient and how each ingredient cope ups with other one and you also understand how to use different tools like a mixer grinder and stuff like that. Whenever your friend comes to you and asks you to make a apple juice or banana juice,  Don't you think you'll be able to pull that off with six months of cooking experience despite making a banana juice before? I think you would be able to kind of almost pull it off with a six months of cooking experience every single day. So that's what zero short prompting means. But for the machines, for the AI, you know, algorithms, you know, whenever inside an AI algorithm, you know,  Not every question you ask, it's not like it's already been trained on. It's just that it's trained on hundreds of different things related to this particular question you're asking and it's understanding and figuring out patterns to give you the exact answer for your question. And that way of asking simple questions when you need simple answers is zero-shot prompting. That's it.  For example, let's say we have a AI trying to understand and generate human-like text. If we give it a question about a topic it has never seen before, such as, what are the benefits of drinking cucumber juice? Even though AI kind of didn't train on that exact benefits of cucumber juice, it will still give you things like, hey, drinking cucumber juice help with hydration, can help with essential vitamins, minerals, and support healthy skin.  But it's not being trained upon. It understands cucumber is a vegetable. It's a kind of one kind of vegetable and that kind of vegetables have almost similar benefits. This is the pattern it might have figured it out and  is able to give you the answer right that's how zero shot prompting works at the back end but in the front end you're just asking when you know the scope or the task you have at your hand and it's so easy that you don't need to give a 20 line context to your prompt you can simply ask one line prompt  you know I usually say that you need to give you know high-level prompts like 20 lines 30 lines and something like that right like I even talk to you in the prompt format but there are few use cases where you don't need all that like you know whenever you need a cucumber juice you don't need to give it a context of 20 lines you don't need to prepare the whole you know prompt format in the format I gave you you could simply  ask chatgpt how to make a cucumber juice and if you want it with sugar or without sugar maybe one small addition that's all you don't need to do the bigger prompts you know for basic things you know when you know all that  You know, so basically zero-shot prompting allows AI to be more adaptable and useful in various situations without needing to be specifically training for every possible scenario. That's how chat GPT is able to do complex things with just one shot prompting like or zero-shot prompting, right? But  You need to understand what is a simple task and what is a complex task. You can't go to ChargerPT and ask it to write a code of an entire app in a zero-shot prompting. It will not work. But you could go and ask ChargerPT to, hey, can you translate this to that? Maybe it would do a better job. Or can you  Can you just see me about this particular thing, like a general knowledge question? Maybe it will do that. But if you ask complex questions, it will not. So 10% of your prompts can be zero-shot prompting in my opinion. Not more than that. Maximum. In your day-to-day life. Most probably your personal questions mostly can be zero-shot prompting in my case. And all your professional questions need a little bit of prompting and all. A little bit of context.  A prompt example would be something like this. Classify the text into neutral, negative or positive. And the text is, I think food is OK. And output of Chachapiti would be neutral. So this is an example of a zero-shot prompting. And before actually discussing the use cases, I'll quickly go give you. So if I go to Chachapiti and say, generate a marketing slogan for eco-friendly stool, it would say to me, sit green, live clean. The eco-friendly stool for a sustainable lifestyle.  It's pretty good, you know, marketing slogan for eco-friendly stool in my opinion. Don't you think so? Just say the word yes in the comment section if you think this is actually a good marketing slogan. Do you think this particular AI with StartGPT has been trained on generating a marketing slogan for eco-friendly stool before? No.  and do you think you need to give it a more context than this for something like this as simple as it's an eco-friendly stool and you need to market a kind of data marketing program it's okay but yeah basically there's no but here end of the day if if you want something so simple use zero short prompting like you could literally go ask when did world war two happen  so when you ask something like this basically you don't need to give a lot of context it's a zero short prompt and if you want a recipe can you give me yeah so you can just even ask can you give me a recipe for cucumber juice it will just give us like certainly here is a simple so for something like this as simple as  recipe for cucumber juice you don't need to kind of write a bigger prompt right as we discussed before and that's it that's the zero-shot prompting and if we go discuss the use cases use cases would be very simple just to put it in one line  anything that you think the answer is so simple can be a use case like historical event enquiries or a simple medical diagnosis assistance not complex again and again don't use at your own thing you know consult a doctor but just you know if it is like hey I'm getting a headache what tablet would be better dolo or maybe other option maybe that kind of simple questions is better  But, you know, you don't ask complex questions like, hey, I'm having, say, a heart pain. What should I do? No, I don't still trust ChargPD for that kind of complex health scenarios. But simple medical diagnosis assistance can be done. And you could use for your cooking recipes and stuff like that. Or you could use it for recipe substitution. You don't want  one particular ingredient, maybe you are a gluten not tolerant, you're not tolerant for gluten or anything like that. You could simply ask Chachapiti to substitute that particular, say, ingredient with something else. That can be a zero-shot prompt and you don't need to give it like a 10-word or 10-line context with this simple prompt. And foreign culture norms, when you're traveling, you want to know the culture of some state or some country, you could literally ask Chachapiti and, you know, you could even ask details about an emerging technology.  you know, if you want to know a little more details about AI. So you could literally get that in a zero-shot prompting, like, but when we want to give a context?  whenever you have a specific need like super specific which is not generalized then you need to give a context or when you have a particular use case for that information maybe you're doing it for a project and you need that in a step-by-step order or whatever so that is when you need to give it a context but what I feel is only 10% of the times you need to use zero short prompting in chatGPT but right now  almost 99.9% of the chargeapt users are using zero shot prompting why it has a lot of benefits it will not suit for everything and next prompting technique will be a little better than zero shot prompting it's like an alternative for it  Each prompting technique we go forward from here will have one advantage and one disadvantage and stuff like that. So it's on you. According to a use case, you need to pick that prompting technique and use it in that particular AI tool you wish to use on. That's it. So yeah, I think for now, that's it for this video. See you in the next video, which is few short prompting. Thank you guys. Bye bye.

7.	Few Shot Prompting
Hey everyone, this is Avinash. I'm back with another video. In this video, let's discuss about few-shot prompting. The previous one is about zero-shot prompting and right now we're discussing few-shot prompting. And what is few-shot prompting? Simple.  whenever you go to chatgpt and ask a question without giving any specific context or any examples to learn and get the context from you know that's zero shot prompting but whenever you give that you know you give little more context for giving examples of the relevant answers you actually need right that could be future prompting  Few shot prompting is nothing but you giving few examples is relevant to your output would be few shot prompting as simple as that. Let's explain this. Let's understand this. In summary, few shot prompting allows AI to learn from a small number of examples and apply that particular knowledge to solve a new problems, making it more efficient and versatile in various situations. You know,  Let's first understand it with few examples. I have few examples written over here. So here, if you see LinkedIn hooks, you know, if you want, if you're a content creator on LinkedIn, and you want some good hooks, and you have like four hooks that already worked, you know, in the previous two months or three months. So now instead of asking me asking a LinkedIn hook for any LinkedIn hook format for my LinkedIn, what I would do is I would just give  few LinkedIn hooks as you know basically as an input and then ask it to get me an output.  right like LinkedIn hooks like three things that no more dash give you dash and I'm giving you four LinkedIn hooks I'm giving that chanchipiti four LinkedIn hooks so that it will understand what worked for me in the past and then I ask her using the above LinkedIn hooks write me three more scroll stopping hook templates and absolutely first now you know it is just like giving me free few templates on top of it it even give us some examples or  Not even examples, it even gave a little kind of utilization technique that one need to understand. Utilization. This hook plays on reader's curiosity by promising them access to the insights or seek tips. Choose a metric or outcome that is especially relevant or desired in your industry or niche and specify a compiling perhaps or whatever.  Unlocking secrets to Dash and how I boosted Dash by Dash percent in just Dash days. So this is a template and I feel this is actually a great template being a market for myself. And it is giving me where I should use that particular hook. And you see here also the unspoken rule Dash that nobody talks about but everyone should be using it in Dash. The unspoken rule of marketing that nobody talks but everyone should be using in the marketing.  creating area of exclusivity and inside knowledge can be especially tantalizing. So yeah, so these are the three hooks. So this is an example. Or else, you know, if you just give them this without any context about your things, you know, it would not give us any good, you know, it would give you but it might not give the best of best that is relevant to you.  You know, it is generally giving what is a pain relief hook, the problem. It's just giving us entire content that one need to understand and write, not the exact hook, achievement hook. Yeah. Specific days ago, I was in a negative situation. Today, I positive outcome, discover my journey, blah, blah, blah. So this is good. But is it specific? No.  that giving chatgpdq examples on the required output needed is nothing but fuchsia prompt and for business owners i could give them another example so what i am doing is as a business owner i know my metrics of doing business right so i will literally go and just give a prompt something like this  Instructions based on the previous provided data over a brief interpretation of the captured of the captures the potential implications or insights for the business. Use the examples as a guide to understand the format and the depth of interpretation needed here. Context is business owner often receive a raw data and need to interpret its significance to make an informed decisions blah blah blah.  Parameters are like use concise and clear language, ensure the interpretation is relevant to the data provided and offers actionable insights. Example here is  So data to interpret, we are not giving at the end, but here example data, website traffic increased by 20% in March compared to February, but sales decreased 5%. The interpretation here would be while more visits came to the website in March, it did not translate to increased sales indicating a potential issue with conversions. That's the example of a data analyst analyzing stuff like that or as a business owner. So I give you one example and then the data here is the company's social media engagement rate dropped  10% in April but the number of followers increased by 15%. So now  What interpretation by Chad Zabit here is, although the company successfully attracted more followers in April, the decrease in social media engagement suggests that content may not be effectively resonating with or involving the audience. The divergence between the follower growth and engagement indicates a need to resist the content strategy to better connect with and activate the growing user base.  You see, how cool is that? And that is the reason why giving a bit of context, you know, is always good in terms of examples. And you might be thinking, maybe, man, I would get almost the same example if I just give this as as it is to Chargibility. Yes. But the goal here is to show you an example on how few short prompting should be used  So, if you feel, what I would suggest is, it's very simple. First, start your journey with zero-shot prompting. If you're not satisfied with zero-shot prompting for any of your techniques, you see that, uh, ChatGPT is very basic, ChatGPT is not able to give anything, blah, blah, blah, then enter few-shot prompting. So, I feel 10% of the entire prompts you could use  entire instructions or whatever the usage can be done with Zero-Shot Prompting and 10 more percentage might need Few-Shot Prompting where you need to give few examples. So this is about Few-Shot Prompting and let's now discuss little kind of limitations of Few-Shot Prompting technique. The first one is inconsistent. Few-Shot Prompting can sometimes produce inconsistent or unpredictable results. Number one to remember.  Sensitive to prompts. The performance of Qshort prompting is highly dependent on the quality of the format of the prompts and the examples that you give inside your prompts. So you need to be very well crafting because you know  examples are everything, you know, whenever you are giving examples, ChatGPT is not looking at examples in their, in that, in its database. It's just been, it's very well dependent on your instruction because it is seeing examples, it don't, it will kind of don't go overdo the research by searching in its database. So kind of, most probably your PROM should be very perfect when it comes to  you know if you shot content it can be sometimes  Confubulation, which means there's a risk that model might generate plausible sounding and incorrect or fabricated information. Like sometimes what happens is, ChargerPT know the right answer, but your instruction is a little confusing to ChargerPT. So that is the reason it's not able to connect the dots and it will give you the confusing answers that might sometimes sound robotic. So whenever you sometimes your few-shot prompting is sounding robotic, you should go check with your examples you gave.  and lack of fine-grained control. Few-shot prompting doesn't offer as much control over the model's output as other techniques like fine-tuning or chain of thought, way of thought, which we're going to discuss. So that is one thing. Lack of controlness might also be a little bit of trouble for, you know, in few-shot prompting. And use cases of few-shot prompting would be  Programming assistance and few short prompting doesn't only be applied for say ChatGPT any AI model you could use this few short prompting. Programming assistance when developers present ChatGPT with a specific coding challenges and accounting snippets AI can discern the context it offers them not just the debugging tips but also suggest for code optimization tailored to programming language or frameworks at hand.  It can also like zero-shift prompting. Now you could literally do some medical diagnosis assistance if you are a doctor and you can do the market analysis and predictions. You could literally do the literary analysis and advanced stimulation modeling. Scientists and engineers by inputting specific parameters of a complex stimulation and desired outputs can leverage creativity's analytical power.  You know, the AI then suggests modification or improvements, ensuring the stimulation model aligned better with real world scenarios. This actually works very good for scientists, you know, scientists oftentimes deal with very complex stuff, right? So whenever instead of asking one answer, giving some context for different examples, will  set tone for ChatGPT to understand the context a little better in a little better ways. And I feel few-shot prompting will be a savvy for scientists. Yeah. And even programmers like, you know, you could use few-shot prompting by giving few examples of the code expectations you have.  and the kind of bugs you usually see from the code. Like imagine, just say, you've given a code, right? So you don't know what is the problem, but you know what kind of bugs you faced in the last two months, whenever you're conducting the whole app development journey. So instead of keeping chatGPT at the spot and asking, hey, do the debugging, most of the times it would do, but imagine it's a complex situation.  In that case scenario, hey, this is the code. And these are the kind of bugs or the problems that I usually face or my team usually face while building this. These are the kind of bugs that, you know, we usually face. Like you give three examples or four examples and ChatGPT would do better debugging in a better optimized and faster way than when you do a zero short prompt.  that's it zero shot prompting is just one line or two line prompt few shot prompting is giving examples like three to four examples or two to three examples and then asking what you want that's it so that's the difference between zero shot and few shot and that's it for this video guys see you in the next one thank you

8.	Chain of thought prompting
Hey everyone, this is Avinash, back with another video. In this video, let's discuss about chain of thought prompting. In the previous videos, we discussed about zero shot prompting and few shot prompting and chain of thought prompting. You know, there are few instances, there might be few instances in our work life, where no matter how good of a prompt engineer we are, we give hundreds, maybe 10 examples with a big prompt, lot of context, you followed the whole prompt. But,  those few shots will not work because the thing is the task is little complex like the task cannot be performed just by giving it a few examples or stuff like that zero prompt is like no way even few shot might not be a good fit in that cases right like in that use cases right maybe you want to write a book or you want to write a marketing campaign or you wanted to  kind of create a blog post and you can't just give the whole example or whole context of your book chapter by chapter and all that in maybe 500,000 words even if you give, child jeopardy can't just give you a 10,000 word in output at a time maximum it can do give is 1000 to 2000 words at max so now it's on you to  to cut down the bigger agenda into smaller chunks. Instead of asking Charity Pity to write an entire book and by giving a hundred word to hundred word context, ask it to write a plot first, improve your plot, create characters, create enemies, create friends between these characters and do all that  On top of it, once this was done, then you ask, hey, write chapter 1, write chapter 2, write chapter 3, and give all the external instructions you need to have, you know, after every instruction. That's it. Like instead of you asking to write 10 chapters at a time, ask Charjapati first to write plot, create characters, create characterizations, create whole content of the book, chapters of the titles of the book.  Then, ask real chart GPT to write each chapter one time each. This would take 20-30 prompts but gives you best 20,000 to 50,000 word book you could imagine. Chart GPT is only as good as your prompts. So, using chain of thought prompting for complex things is one utility. So now, usually chain of thought is two ways. One, when you know your task is complex but output is simple.  you have one method but when you know your task is complex but output is big  In the example which we gave, where output is complex, which is writing a book is complex. But it is also big. It is like 10,000 to 50,000 word output. So in that case, you divide prompts and give it one by one. Like you divide the whole bigger agenda into smaller chunks and give 20, 30 prompts to get your stuff done at the time, like at the end. But then there's that thing.  When you know, the task is complex but the output would be small. Then you will, instead of giving it 8 different prompts to get answer, you just add the word step by step. Why this needed? Simple.  When you say the word step by step, you are instructing ChatGPT to forget everything from the 2nd point to 8th point and only think about 1 and then 2 and forget about 1 and 3 to 8. Something like that. You are only asking ChatGPT to concentrate on one step so that  The idea is here to make Chanchipuri think step by step so that it could solve the logical problems like you know all this reasoning and aptitude questions or it can be your programming questions very easily.  That's it. I'll just give you the research paper's definition of chain of thought so that it will be very handy for your prompt engineering jobs in the future. So, chain of thought prompting. Chain of thought prompting is an advanced prompting technique that guides a language model through a series of interconnected steps to arrive at a desired output.  It involves breaking down a complex problem into smaller tasks, prompting the AI to solve each task in a sequential manner, and then combining the result to generate the final output. Exactly the book example I told you. Remember, you are combining all the output answers, you know, putting it on a Google Doc, and then the final answer will be arrived daily.  The chain of thought prompting can be particularly useful when tackling problems that require multi-step reasoning or solving tasks that are challenging for AI models to understand in a single prompt. So to illustrate an example, let's see this. So a bookstore has 45 books in its inventory. They sold 15 books and then received 25 books in a new shipment. How many books does the bookstore have now?  A chain of thought prompt guides the language model to prompt intermediate decision steps that follow a train of thought output. The bookstore initially had 45 books, they sold 15 books, which means they had 40 blah blah blah and then they will give you an answer here. But the thing is, here you need to add the word step by step.  you know, here we didn't showcase it to you. But whenever you just see this, you know, this is like a reasoning question. Basically, it sounds simple, but end of the day, it's like a reasoning question. And whenever there is a reasoning question, and you need to think step by step, you need to add the word step by step. So that  chain of thought prompting will be activated inside Chanchipiti and they would actually think the whole thing in step by step manner so that you will get a better answer.  That's it. So, let's just understand, you know, the whole few shots, zero shots, few shots, you know, CO2 and zero shots CO2 and stuff like that. Okay. So, few shots example. Roger has five tennis balls. He buys two more cans of tennis balls. Each can has three tennis balls. How many tennis balls does he have now? Usually the answer is, like, they even gave the answer 11. The reason they gave answer 11 is,  because it's a few shot you need to give an example of the similar question just as a reference and then the real question happens. A juggler can juggle 16 balls half of the balls are golf balls and half of the golf balls are blue. How many blue golf balls are there? If you go directly to Chachapati 3.5 and give this it will give you the answer 8 which is wrong.  which is the few-shot even when you give an example because it's a little more in-depth reasoning question it's not able to give you an answer then you will use something called zero-shot prompting in the zero-shot prompting what would you do is you will just give the the second answer which is the juggler's one directly and the output will be 8 if you're not getting it if in that case then you'll activate few-shot COT where you would say  You'll say one example of Roger, but you'll explain why the answer is 11 in this example. Roger started with 5 balls, 2 cans, 3 balls, blah blah blah. So this is few short chain of thought. So here you are instructing  in the reference example to think in a step-by-step by actually giving an example and then output also will be similar to the example you give here which is according to the rows of blah blah blah then the answer is four and zero short  COT. Zero shot COT is nothing but you adding the word let's think step by step. So that is also COT, you know, change thought. And then when you say let's think step by step, the question is the same and you are just adding let's think step by step and then you are just, you know, the output of that particular solution would be there is a 16 balls in total and then it's just kind of think step by step because you say things step by step.  so you understand here I am instructing here we discussed about two types of chain of thought prompting one you are actually demonstrating how to think step by step in few shots COT and you are actually just adding the word let's think step by step in zero shots COT that's all these are the two ways and the third way is the way that I am going to discuss right now I gave you example for two ways  which are like okay it's like you know but most of the time you might not be just it you might have a bigger tasks like writing a book writing a blog post and stuff like that for that kind of people I have few examples if you are a marketer and you want to create a marketing plan you know so basically you you are going to do something like this so you're going to do this so you're going  the context of the whole thing.  for every 10,000 emails sent. Influencer collaboration costs $500 per influencer and you can plan to collaborate with five influencers. Consider these conditions and answer the following questions. How much will you spend on each collaboration? Blah, blah, blah. And it will give you an answer here. Then if you allocate, then the next question. So instead of asking it  all the questions at a time we're just dividing questions into different you know sequential order so that we're giving a better answer if we ask the all questions in a similar way we will not get an answer this you know kind of in depth I'll also show you that you know how much will you spend on email marketing if you plan to send 50,000 email subscribers blah blah blah you know  we'll get all these answers after allocating the funds what you know the question here is after allocating the funds how much budget blah blah blah just an example of how this whole thing works right so imagine you got all this so let me just do this at a time in a single short prompt like we got all this we still didn't paste the fifth one guys by the way I'll just paste the fifth one also  Yeah, given the budget allocations for each channel, blah, blah, blah, influencer collaboration, email marketing, social media, and the remaining budget, all that, it will give it will give us the whole thing. So basically, we gave the context, we gave the budget, and it we asked it to create an entire marketing plan for three different channels for our marketing. So now, instead of me using COT, if I if I would have used basically zero shot prompting, or maybe kind of a single shot prompting,  I would get something like this. See the answer. Right? So, we got answers for everything in a very concise and in a basic way, which I think I don't want. So, that's the very reason why I divided the entire budget. So, entire questions into one by one and made it think for one thing at a time so that it will be much more in-depth for all the questions it has to answer. I'll show you the difference also.  it's little slower right now but it will be much faster than this usually right if you see this you know it it didn't even answer fifth question guys it just left the fifth question which is how the whole thing works you see one answer is this big and here  the answer is just like few sentences and stuff like that. So that's the difference. And this even works for business owners, students, you know, imagine you're a student and you know, you are a student and running a niche blog post to make a passive income. This is how you to use how to use chain of thought technique, you know, maybe you're a student, and we have a readymade prompt here, we, we need to write the whole thing and then get  a whole blog post out of ChatGPT. Instead of we giving the whole thing in a similar way, I divided my agenda into four, five different rounds. And now I'll try and get the best out of the whole thing possible. Now I got, if you are a blog post or content writer, you know, the primary keywords, secondary keywords and lesser keywords are most important keywords for anything. So  for writing a blog post especially for SEO purpose. Then I am going to give the exact answer what writing style I need and everything like this is like the main prompt. I created our keywords and now the thing is using these keywords I want it to write the whole thing. It gives us the whole blog post here.  So, the next let's just let it write and then I am asking write it to write a compiling meta description for the above blog post under 160 characters and make sure to include primary keywords without word change. So, it is still writing. So, I will just read till this thing actually gets completed. So, so right now the limit not limit, but most of the times if you ask it to write more than 1000 words.  it's actually not that good you know we got this article out out of this okay yeah so basically we got uh one article out just don't ask it to write more than 15 words 1500 words guys maximum is 1000 words i unfortunately asked 1500 words maximum is 1000 words is what i feel it gives the best answer so let's imagine okay it's already a good uh you know  output introduction in the ever-dynamic world of entrepreneurship understanding the steps of launching a successful startup is a linchpin that holds the dreams of budding entrepreneurs you are actually you have got actually a good answer from Charjipati and then we are writing compelling meta description which is unlock success with our guide on the steps to launch a successful startup gain expert blah blah blah so that's it that's your meta description  and write 5 title ideas for the above blog post. You see, we are dividing a bigger agenda of writing a blog post into smaller chunks than anything else. That's it. We got 5 title ideas which we could just pick one and go on. And the fifth one would be write 4 questions for FAQ session. FAQ like what would be the frequently asked questions in this particular thing. You could  add this frequently asked questions in your blog post itself for the better engagement from your readers. That's it.  kind of content we got here would be around 1500 words if I'm not wrong and all it took us like three minutes right now to get to this level which is crazy in my opinion and you should all try chain of thought prompting to write your blog posts, books and stuff like that. You know recently I even did a full workshop or like a two hours thing on this just chain of thought prompting and different prompting techniques  We covered two prompting techniques in that workshop. I'll ask someone in my team to attach that. So if you loved the output we got from chain of thought prompting already, I just want you to also watch that particular workshop, live recorded workshop that will make you understand things in little in-depth manner, right?  So that's it guys. Chain of thought prompting. Just to summarize, you could do it in three ways. One, adding the word step by step for the complex problems. But when you even you know the word count of the output is like simple, you could just say step by step.  or even when chat jpd is not able to think step by step even after you asking you to think step by step give it an example of the previous question where and that example think step by step that would give the better answer well that's two ways and the third way is to write your blog post to write your you know video scripts to write your you know books and stuff like that where  Things are complex also large. This is when you need to divide your hundred like you divide one prompt into 20 different things and then get answers one at a time. So this is a chain of thought prompting and you see this is the kind of output we got. It's almost like  1500 words. I'm sorry guys. 1500 words in like 2-3 minutes is like a huge deal. That's it. So that's all for this video guys. Thanks. Thank you. By the way, we have limitations of chain of thought technique. It's not done yet. I know it's a little longer video than usual. But yeah. So the first limitation is task suitability. The method might not be as effective for tasks that don't require multi-step reasoning. Obviously like when you can do the things in a simple one or few short prompting or zero short prompting.  You don't need to use chain of thought prompting because it's little complex and it takes little more time than zero shot or few shot prompting. Quality of the prompts are most important here. The way you divide and then the way you keep giving the context after every 5 to 10,000 words. Like, you know,  After 5,000 to 10,000 words, ChatGPT or any LLM might forget what you're teaching, like what you are writing about. The first context window will be gone. So it's your responsibility on actually reminding ChatGPT that you are writing about this particular topic after every 5,000 to 10,000 words. That's the quality of the prompts.  As the language model increases in size and intricacies, these are concerns about whether the chain of thought prompting can consistently offer a significant enhancement in reasoning performance. Most of the time, chain of thought prompting, since it is a multi-step prompt, answer from previous prompt will be dependent on the next prompt's response, right? So, this is a little hectic or little kind of  So it's it might not be consistent and might not be scaling, but as a user of chart3pt or any large language models it's more than enough to start the whole thing and dependence on the large language model chain of thought prompting has been found to be the most effective with the large language models particularly with those who have more than 100 billion parameters. So this means that  You know, if you use a large language model with less than 100 billion parameters, you might not be able to get the best results out of it. It is too complex for that particular model to be able to give you the perfect answer. And then let's now discuss about the use cases. It can be used for code debugging.  business strategy formulations like we did like you know we did build a whole marketing plan right and complex mathematical proofs for high level mathematics COT can guide the models through step of a proof through each step of a proof or theory derivation or derivation or whatever ensuring that foundational assumptions intermediary steps and the final conclusions are coherently linked  and multi-phased budget analysis. Like you know, multi-phased budget analysis means like beyond basic financial health insights, COT Promptly can dive deeper into company's budget. Analyzing revenue streams, operation costs, R&D investments, and forecasting future expenditure, it can provide a comprehensive financial roadmap.  and it can also be very good for architectural design review. In architectural projects, COT can guide the model to sequentially assess the design aesthetics, structural integrity, utility placements, and regulatory compliances, ensuring every facet of the architectural design is scrutinized. That's it.  for writing books, for writing blog posts, for writing bigger pieces of content, mathematical reasoning, for all that, you know, interview based preparations that you do for, you know, your reasoning round or aptitude round, chain of thought is the answer for you all. So yeah, that's it for this video, folks. See you in the next video with another prompting technique. Thank you. Bye bye.

9.	General knowledge prompting
Hey everyone, this is Avinash back with another video.In this video, let's understand about this prompting technique called Generated Knowledge Prompting.So what is Generated Knowledge Prompting?We discussed, by the way, about a lot of prompting techniques already.This is like fourth or fifth in the series.Generated Knowledge Prompting is like you, before asking the actual question, if you could give a little bit of priming to the large language model. you know, by asking questions that are relevant to your actual questions, but not actual questions. You know, imagine you wanted to create an itinerary for Paris.Before you actually asking itinerary for the Paris, if you could go to the large language model and ask, hey, how as a place, a tourist, as a tourist destination is Paris for a recently married couple?What are the 10 restaurants?First question.Second question can be, what are the 10 restaurants do you recommend to visit in Paris?What are the best croissant places in Paris?What are the Three historical places in Paris.Tips while traveling to Paris and all that like priming.You are asking like four or five different questions first before you actually asking about Paris.Before you actually ask the word Paris, I can read, right?So this way you're priming a large language model to think in a certain way while understanding your context in a better way. and getting the final output as it is you know preparing an itinerary is like a 500 word 2000 word article it's not super complex to use chain of thought and you know you don't need to give any itinerary references or something like that you could just prepare a mega prompt as discussed below with the proper prompt template and get it done But the challenge is, it might not be very in-depth and tailor made for you.For that very reason, asking relevant questions before you actually ask the final question would be a very better idea here.Right?So now let's talk in terms of, say, research paper knowledge.So in the research papers, the generated knowledge prompting is something like this.Generated knowledge prompting is a technique where you first ask a LLM to provide a useful information about a certain topic. before you ask it to create a final product or final answer.This helps to make the final result more detailed and informative.In essence, you're prepping the language model with relevant information to boost the quality of the output.That's it.And we have two steps in general generated knowledge prompting.First step is to actually generate knowledge regarding the topic that you're going to ask your final question on. you'll just kind of generate the knowledge.And the second question is integrating the knowledge you already got. right?Say knowledge integration is a process where you combine the information generated by the last language model with the origin question to help the model provide a more accurate and informed answer.Like the last question you remember, create a travel itinerary for you know, travel itinerary for Paris using the relevant information on top.That is when it will give you the best itinerary and that step is your knowledge integration. First you ask the large language model for the facts about it.This is another example.First you might ask facts for the Eiffel Tower and you might two facts.Now you want large language model to write a social media post about the Eiffel Tower.But this time you include those facts in your request.Write a post about Eiffel Tower in the Paris which was built for the 9th for the 1899 world's phase.Right?So you could do the knowledge integration in two parts guys.One, you could literally, if it's a small fact or something, you could just ask the final answer. and add your fact also there.But sometimes here you ask 10 different restaurants, 10 different things, 10 different that, 10 different this.The output you already got on the top is like a huge.So sometimes you can't integrate all that knowledge here so you could just add in this word called hey I need a travel itinerary for Paris based on the above information create me a in-depth Paris itinerary for seven days for two of us something like that you see you're not actually integrating the information literally by copy pasting but actually asking chatjpt to refer or any large language model to refer the above answers while creating a answer for this question as the output That's it.So that's like the whole thing.The first step is you're asking a question.General knowledge is being generated.You ask 1, 2, 3 here.And then the last step is integrating the knowledge and you will get an answer here.So that's how the whole flow goes.And I'll first show you an example of how this generated knowledge prompting works.For marketers, the prompt 1 would be something like this. Guys, you could not just use just one prompt.Knowledge generation is just not one prompt.In this example, we're just using one prompt for time being and for ease.But you could ask Charjipati to you to basically answer eight different questions before you go in and answering them.Before you go in and answering the asking the final question, right?Imagine you wanted to write a book, before you actually asking Charjabitty to write the first chapter, you could literally ask Charjabitty to write different characters, characterization of each and you know, what are the best analogies we could use to describe that, something relevant to that generated knowledge, then you are integrating that knowledge into a chapter wise summary or something like that. So now if you see, we're actually asking this question.Assume the role of seasoned digital marketing strategist with over two decades of experience in the industry.Throughout your career, you observed and adapted to rapidly changing digital marketing tools, platforms, and best practices.Provide a comprehensive overview of a major shift in digital marketing strategies, dealing the rise and the fall of various platforms, the evolution of consumer behavior online, and the impact of technology advancements on the marketing campaign. So that is what it gave us like you know different approaches, different you know thing rise and fall of various platforms blah blah blah like major shifts.It gave us all the major shifts that happened in the first round.Now we're going to ask construct a detailed timeline that traces evolution of digital marketing campaign, digital marketing from the early 2020, 2000s to 2020 right now. So, I will be, this timeline should compass of pivotal technological innovations blah blah blah additionally integrate data from a reputable reputable marketing research sources to sustain to sustainable to substantiate the trends and shifts highlighting in the timeline offering insights and effectiveness of ROI and various stages of the years.That's all.So, this is how you get answer right now. So, would you get something like this if you just have copy-pasted this?Maybe.But to be more sure and more accurate, if you just ask it to generate knowledge first and then integrate that knowledge by asking the next follow-up and final question you have in your mind, That's when you get a better detailed answer.You see now for everything, the dawn of digital presence, the rise of social media and SEO, mobile domination and content marketing 2011 to 2015, 2016 to 2017, personalization, AI and data privacy, and the glance of evolution, all the evolutions and then conclusion.Do you think this is so?Very good article by Chad Gpt and that trust me the answer might not be like this if you would have just copy pasted this in the similar one so like into the single one so yeah that is the one example that's one example and let's understand this for the students and by the way programmers matthew who is our programming and developers mentor will be doing all this prompting walkthroughs for all the programmers we have all the programmers programming techniques also, which we have here where Madhu created these techniques.So he will be explaining dedicatedly for programmers.But even for Madhu, to understand Madhu's example, you need to kind of understand this whole journey first.You need to understand my thing so that non-technically you'll be perfect.And for technical people and developers, you might watch the Madhu's one, which will be attached in the same module.So now let's understand it for the students right now. Act as an expert plant physiology professor.I want you to shed some light blah blah blah on photosynthesis or whatever.So, you're now asking something, some knowledge generation part and then ChatGPT will generate the knowledge.Your final question here is very simple. Now using this information you have generated about the photosynthesis, could you explain the process in detail and easy to understand manner for a high school student?Please start from the absorption of light, describe the role of chlorophyll and blah blah blah.So now we are asking it to basically generate all the knowledge, then using that knowledge we are asking it to explain this process in a detailed and easy manner and convert that process to a basically high school student. So to ask that, we need to first ask chatjpt to actually generate the complex word as if it is generating for a normal person.Then we're asking you to generate or convert the same knowledge as if it is a student or as if you are a student and it's citing for you.Now this will be better.Like basic overview of photosynthesis, organisms that perform photosynthesis, importance of photosynthesis, photosynthesis process and stuff like that. Absolutely.Gathering ingredients, the chef's kitchen, the chloroplast, cooking with light, light-dependent reactions.You see, Chajjipudi is able to understand and explain it to you in a way that is very easy for a high school student to understand. you know, chef's magic, sunlight, kitchen, the chloroplast, plants absorb CO2 from the air through small pores on their leaves called stomatoes and H2O from the soil, blah blah blah and stuff like that.For students, to be able to convert any complex topic in an easier way Just ask Charjeepet to first generate the basic part as a professional physiologist or you know some professional in that particular area and then ask it to convert that particular thing as if you're a high school student and explain it to her in a step-by-step manner.That's it.No? So how many students here think this is actually a very good understanding and explanation in the second time than the first time.First time it's like energy source, oxygen production and blah blah blah and little monotonous or little hectic. And whenever here, you see location, key components, how it works, caption, glottal field, molecule, objects, life, data, all excited.Anyways, so those are the two examples.And we could even do this for the business owners.You're a business owners of a travel agency company, you're trying to create a travel identity for your client. So the prompt one is to generate knowledge.By the way, I'm saying you again, knowledge generation can happen in multiple steps.Just for the sake of these examples, to be a little faster and not boring, we are creating it in only one prompt to knowledge generation and one prompt to knowledge integration. You could do it in multiple knowledge generation steps and then obviously knowledge integration will be in only one step because you'll use all the knowledge that was generated above and integrate into one answer.So instead of asking the popular tourist destination like itinerary, we're asking popular tourist destinations, best times to visit, local cuisine, culture norms and tips, blah blah blah. then we'll ask charchipati to create an itinerary which would give us a better itinerary than before yeah so now it is giving us a little better itinerary you know day one morning you should do this day two afternoon day one afternoon you should do this and it will go on and on and I'm not sure if we even set the 3D itinerary yeah 3D itinerary we set the 3D itinerary it will just give us the best possible itinerary you enjoy lunch here explore this and then Italian freeze you know it is giving Italian freezes also to be little you know local to sound like local or whatever and yeah don't you think this itinerary is like very in-depth for three days and it would give you seven days six days itinerary as well from the information it generated right so that's all so that's how Edison like Italian phrases and embrace the Italian way of living where the meals are over the histories to understand the beauty of life blah blah blah blah and that's all so that's all about knowledge generation, but then first now also understand a few limitations of this dependency on the initial information.The quality of the final output will be highly dependent on the initial set of facts or information provided.If the initial knowledge generation phase yields inaccurate or relevant facts, the final product may also be flawed or misleading.So whenever it is generating knowledge, it's your responsibility to actually fact check yourself before you integrate that knowledge in the final step.Potential for redundancy.If the language model is already aware of certain facts, repeatedly prompting it with the same information can lead to redundant or repetitive final output.When you feel that you could get, you have two options, right?You could just use MegaPrompt that we already gave you the format and stuff like that with all the MegaPrompt library or use this GeneratedKnowledgePrompt. whenever you think mega prompt is more than enough use mega prompt only just because this is an advanced prompting technique using advanced prompting technique for the basic tasks will actually give you worst answers sometimes using the basic prompts are better so the reason but the reason why I am saying you different different advanced prompting techniques is because Who knows, you might need very complex things.So just because I'm saying you generate a knowledge prompting is best, mostly you don't need 90% of the times.10% of the times where you have some bigger issues, bigger complex tasks, that's when you need to use this.Don't just use it for namesake just because you're an advanced certified prompt engineer.That will yield not so good results.And increased complexity, obviously the two-step process of knowledge integration and generation is like, generation and integration is little complex than the normal Megaprom technique.So risk of over-reliance.Users might become overly reliant on this technique, assuming that it is always enhancing output quality.No, it is not.But this is good for certain complex things.So the goal here is first, it's just like a doctor, right? probability checking.So whenever you have a task, you need to actually see what technique might yield you better result and what technique is just appropriate not more not less.It should be appropriate and fit with your requirement and this you are going to figure it out over the period of next two to three months when you use each and every technique for maybe 10-15 minutes.So whenever there is actual need use it or else don't use it.It will not yield any better results and use case for generated knowledge prompting with chart GPT or any large language model by the way. you could write research papers just by using generated knowledge prompting, you know, whenever the knowledge is like very infinite and then it's very complex.And you would use this from a technique, you could use this for business presentations, you could use for recipe creations, travel itinerary planning, which we discussed, you could actually use this for book or movie recommendations as well instruct generic recommendations by feeding summaries of current trends, users can receive recommendations that are both in line with popular culture and tailored to the specific preferences.So I feel this is Actually a very good technique for that also.And that's all for this video.Generative Knowledge Prompting it is.And see you in the next one.I hope you enjoyed.Bye bye.


10.	Tree of Thought Prompting
Hey everyone, this is Avinash back with another video.In this video, let's discuss about tree of thought prompting.I have a fancy 20 slide deck to explain this, but at the final moment, I decide not to show you all this, you know, technical jargon and explain this whole thing in just three, four minutes in a simple and understandable way.Okay.But just for the sake of, you know, presentation, if you need that particular presentation for the like, you know, if you are interested in learning stuff, like in a picky manner, you could obviously download this presentation and just, you know, give the link for this particular presentation in the description.But yeah, let's first discuss free of thought prompting.So essentially, when large language models were invented, you know, there are no techniques and something, right?People were inventing large language models, but as a users, there are no techniques, which is inputting a prompt, and you're getting an output.Sometimes you're giving context and trying all that, but only last few years, is when the prompting technique era started, where people were giving different prompting techniques and stuff like that.So then they created zero-shot prompting.Essentially, almost for so many years, prompting is nothing but zero-shot prompting in any large language model. See, after few years they invented few-shot prompting and then the major push happened when chain of thought came in, right?So people thought, hey, zero-shot prompting is too very basic and naive.Can't we just improve the efficiency of large language model by inventing something called chain of thought prompting where they're dividing the whole bigger agenda into smaller tasks and adding all the outputs from the different tasks and getting the final answer and stuff like that.Or they'll ask, to things step by step and stuff like that.So that's chain of thought prompting.But the problem with chain of thought prompting again is this.Chain of thought prompting is giving great outputs for YouTube scripts, blog posts, movie scripts or you know say books.But then it is failing to give best answers for strategic thinking. Like you need a marketing strategy, you need a financial strategy for the entire year.This strategic thinking is little more advanced, right?So, humans who are creative sometimes might not be strategic, right?So, very few people can be both creative and strategic at the same time. You know, you see a lot of, you know, Bollywood artists or Hollywood artists end up being broke at the final stages of their career because of the bad financial strategy management they have or something like that, or bad habits or whatever.So they're creative, but end of the day, they don't have the perfect strategy to, you know, do the finance and stuff like that.So majority of the humans, first level is they don't have creativity only.Second level, they have creativity, but not strategic planning.Third level, like, people might have both strategy and creativity, just like humans.AI is also like that.To activate that third person mentality, where you are asking the activity to be both creative and strategic at the same time, someone super smart invented tree of thought prompting.So what this particular scientist AI scientist or you know prompt engineering scientist did is he said hey let's take the chain of thought prompting which is COT in short form to next level and invent TOT which is tree of thought prompting.He said I will create four or five or a few agents under the main prompt and ask AI to create four assistants or four agents that would support and give one answer one strategy for the given task and each one of these agents will give four different strategies and these four agents will will kind of have a discussion healthy group discussion between themselves and conclude a better strategy so now AI is not giving you single solution AI is not just answering one thing at a time and then making it as a final one.It is giving you four solutions on top of it.It is creating agents to think and discuss pros and cons between each strategy and coming up with the best output for the strategy, like best strategy at end of the day.So that is Tree of Thought grounding. Chain of Thought Prompting might work well for works, YouTube scripts and stuff like that.But Tree of Thought Prompting is when you will use, when you have strategy planning, marketing strategy, financial strategy, business model strategy, anything that includes not just creativity but strategy, Tree of Thought is the solution for you.Right?So let me show this with an example so that you'll be perfectly aware of what's going on. Right.So I had this particular prompt already.I'll just go to chart GPT and then.Yeah.So basically what I'm saying is imagine a roundtable discussion with three renowned marketing experts.Each expert is tasked with brainstorming a unique marketing strategy for a new eco-friendly product.All experts will first write down their initial marketing idea, then share it with the group. After discussing the initial idea, each expert will propose a specific tactic to implement the strategy and sharing it with the group.If any expert realizes the strategy or tactic isn't viable at any point, they leave the discussion.The question is, how would you market a new eco-friendly product to a target segment that is not environmentally conscious? After each expert answers, other two experts need to say their thoughts on that particular strategy, both positive and negative and conclude the discussion on that marketing strategy proposed.You see, we're creating three people and AI and AI is just quarreling or kind of discussing between themselves and giving us the best strategy.This way, you could keep this by the way, three or four also maximum.It's like end of the day, the output can be more than 1000 words.So maybe you could keep four, five, six, something like that, and see what works roundtable discussion.Let's create a fictional marketing experts Alex and advocate for influencer marketing and storytelling Bobby are data driven experts who lean into technology, technological analytical solutions, Charlie, a grassroots marketing enthusiast who believe in community involvement and local partnership. Stage one, initial ideas.So initial ideas is like everyone is just giving us one strategy.I propose leveraging the power of stories telling through influencers who can narrate the journey of our eco-friendly product.The focus will not just be on its eco-friendly aspects, but more on its practical, practicality, utility and cost effective.Efficiency certainly weaving in the environmental angle to keep to tap into unconscious eco-friendly behavior of non-environmentally conscious target audience.This is one solution this Alex gave us.Now understand, Bobby, given that our target is not environmentally conscious, we should lean into providing direct benefits to them. Showcasing how our products enhances their lifestyle, we would utilize data-driven programmatic advertising, you know, segmentation of the audience based on whatever.That's the Bobby's answer.Charlie, I believe bringing up the change from the grassroot level.Thus, organizing a localized event and partnering with local businesses to introduce the product would be potent. Through these partnerships and events, we can showcase the product in action, focusing on its utility and effectiveness while quietly celebrating its eco-friendly attributes. So now, these are the three different strategies three people gave.Now, feedback on Alex's idea, Bobby on Alex's idea, Charlie on Alex's idea, Alex on Bobby's idea, and then it goes on and on.We'll get three discussions.And then we got both positive, the emotive power of blah, blah, blah, we got it, we got this, we got like six different discussions that went on between them.And stage two is specific tactics, identifying influences, feedback session number two, It is not happening once, it is happening twice, thrice.Marketing an eco-friendly product to a non-environmentally conscious audience presents a unique challenge.Alex, Bobby and Charlie provided strategies focusing on the certainly incorporation of Environmental aspects ensuring the direct and practical benefits of the products are foreground of a marketing message.Through influencers, AI driven engagement and grassroots campaigns, they seek to gently awaken unconsciousness, unconscious environmental awareness in the target audience without alienating them with overly green messaging, the feedback loop among the experts, blah, blah, blah.In reality, the mix of the strategies ensuring scalability, personality, blah, blah, blah. how things work.Isn't this awesome?Like literally, you are keeping AI as your assistants, three of them to discuss strategy between themselves and come up with an actual answer.Right?So yeah, grassroot level is a gentle and conscious behavior.I'll show you one other aspect or one other time that I use this particular thing for.And you know, And you know what happened?Arya, similarly, you know what happened is Arya is a person who said that, you know, let's see just here, one second. Yeah, area.Spot on.Every consumer wants to know what's in it for me and this approach if we focus what on expert A, expert B, expert C. Initial mark.Organize a local community events where the products can be showcased and experience it firsthand.You know, this is the initial idea that this particular expert C came up with. And then what happened, somehow, you know, expert A and expert B gave the feedback, they concluded, and then, you know, if you see, at the end, what Aria did is, during the virtual events, they discussed between themselves and came up with a plan.Hey, like when Aria said that, hey, let's do local events, Dania and then Liam says, hey, local events are very costly and unscalable and stuff like that.Then they come up with a plan of, doing virtual events, just out of nowhere.And now they agreed to do virtual events than normal local events.You see, someone is coming up with some idea and two other people were using that idea as a piece and changing it a bit to be sustainable for the brand in the long term.That's it. The expert reached to the consciousness on the hybrid strategy, they decided to utilize influences to introduce the products focusing on its tangible benefits.This would then be followed by a virtual event to offer a deeper experience of the product.This approach combines the strengths of all three initial strategies, ensuring scalability, genuine interaction and highlighting the immediate product benefits.Isn't this amazing guys?If you are a business owner, Instead of thinking hundred different times, how should I promote this product?What are the pros?What are the cons?Just go to Chanchipiti and use this particular template as your base and then get out of it.As simple as that.Like literally that.That's it.I can't appreciate this particular strategy enough.This is just a rock star for me personally. Anyways, let's go to tree of thought prompting and see definitions, input, understand prompt, strain of thought prompting, investigating, prompt 1, prompt 2, yeah.So, limitations of this tree of thought prompting technique is it's little complex, like you know, it is not for everyone and this will not apply for the basic, like you can't use tree of thought prompting for a blog post, it is going to be huge.It is only applicable and it is only best for the strategy planning. And then it needs a lot of computational resources because, you know, sometimes, you know, I showed you a small example, right?Like sometimes when the task is bigger, the strategy is bigger, you need to create eight different people and all that, you know, it requires a lot of computational resources as well as time taken.And dependence on this effective self-critique.The success of the tree of thought prompting heavily relies on AI's ability to effectively self-critique its generated thoughts. And sometimes if the mood of AI is bad, you know, the whole strategy will be very bad and end of the day.So you should actually not just go read the conclusion, you should actually read the entire discussion and say, Hey, did this AI agent made sense?If that particular agent in the second step didn't make sense, the entire output and the conclusion will be dependent on each and every step throughout the process. So if something is not making sense, maybe opening a new tab and using it would be a better strategy than just, you know, not using it or maybe using as it is, right?So, each and every output and every step throughout this whole process of the one output is more important than anything else.And striking the right balance between thought size and search fees and evaluate reasoning is very crucial.And determining the appropriate granularity of the thoughts based on what LLMs can generate effectively can be a little challenging, right? So, an example use cases would be mathematical reasoning, complex problem solving, conversational AI, and research and exploration, decision making, you know, it can be like, this can literally be a mechanism to take decisions at a high level, you know, companies with the management role.If you are a manager, if you are into management role of any company, this method If you are a product manager or anything where you need to take a strategical decisions, this is going to be awesome.By the way, next video or like in this module towards the end, we have separate examples of Tree of Thought prompting by Madhu just for programmers and developers.And that's it.Thank you.I hope you found this helpful.I'll also be attaching the live sessions I did on Tree of Thought prompting for the further reference.I'll upload these prompts in the description below.I'll also give you the presentations in the description below so that it will be super handy for you all.That's it.Thank you.Thank you.Bye bye.See you in the next video.

11.	Reflexion Prompting

Hey everyone this is Avinash back with another video.In this video let's discuss about reflection prompting.So people call it reflection prompting but to just make it little better I feel to call it like critique prompting.So essentially what we're doing is imagine we have a content either generated by AI or we have our own content we wrote a book by ourselves right like you know sometimes we feel there are no mistakes like you know there's like no hard and fast mistakes but there are a lot of improvements that are abstract that you could improve upon.So at that point of time you could go to AI models and say hey this is the content I have can you critique as a professional critique can you critique on what we have. That's all.And then it will give you the critical points and you just take those critical points and improve the initial output.And you could do the same to either AI generated content or your own content.Both. So, the process of making AI critique the content that is written by AI itself or maybe sometimes human written is known as reflection prompting or critique prompting.Now, let us understand this you know in a research paper terms.Defining definition of reflection prompting.Reflection is an innovative AI model designed to tackle challenges where there is no clear right answer. So imagine you want to write a blog post, right?To create a blog post, there is no right or wrong way of it.It's just how you interpreted it.And there's only improvements.There's not like wrong answer.It's not a fact.You know, it's not like, when was the old war happened?You know, it will say it's not like it took even a year.It's like, It's great, but can I make it better?That's how it works.Inspired by the human ability to learn from the mistakes and adapt, this technique is useful for complex fields like protein.It's not protein research, but basically chemical research, physics, architectural design, as well as everyday issues.It's a mistake from my team.Sorry, by the way.Anyways. So the reflection technique offers significant improvements in AI performance.Trust me when I say it, you will get 2x, 3x better results by just asking AI to critique the content it already wrote.Especially in models like ChargerPity 4, by allowing the AI to analyze and correct its own mistakes, it ensures more precise results.Now, a few things that you could do with, you know, This particular technique is complex problem solving, ideal for multi-step models or those needing information from varied sources, reflection aids, the AI in refining its strategy, enhancing solution accuracy.Language Comprehensions.Enhance AI's grasp on context, nuances, and text certilities.Like whenever you want to do the language translation, first time it might give you the better answer, normal answer.But you ask it to critique the translation it already did. it will give you a few improvements and use those improvements to do that again it will give the better answer it it for the coders this can be huge like there is a lot of optimizations that's possible with every code you have.Like you could ask this twice, thrice and then keep on going and have like 40 improvement points and ask AI to integrate this 40 improvement points that you generated from four critical critique prompting steps and then you get the best optimized code output or whatever. creative endeavors like for tasks like quantum creation, poetry, the reflection prompting helps the AI to refine its outputs to suit specific needs or standards improving the overall quality.Multimode tasks suitable for tasks mixing different modalities like text to image reflection assistant assists and the AI in streamlining outputs across the varied domains.Error management in the task where precision is Very important, reflection aids in spotting and refining mistakes, guaranteeing superior results.That's it.Reflection technique is pivotal for enhancing AI's performance across diverse tasks.By promoting self-evolution, it drives models towards more accurate outcomes, edging closer to the goal of artificial intelligence. First time when I saw this pronged tick technique, I was like, wow, we're almost close to AGI is what I felt.But yeah, anyways, let's just see an example here.So whenever I, let's say, write a short story about a time travel adventure or something like that, it will write a short story, right? so it will write a short story blah blah blah then I'll ask to critique itself.Critique your previously written short term in terms of plot, character development and offer suggestions to enhance the story.So I can add as a professional story writer. So basically what I did is here, as a professor and story writer, critique yourself previously written short story in terms of plot, character development, blah, blah, blah.It then gave us plot, first category, it gave us strengths, weaknesses and suggestions.It says the plot integrates mystical elements and timeless human experiences forming the bridge between historical and modern worlds through a time travel mechanism of the ember tone. Weakness and Suggestions.Complexity.For a short story, it might attempt to encapsulate too much.Blah blah blah.Climax and Resolution.Ellera said departure from the medieval era is rather abrupt.Blah blah blah.And it gave us the character development.Maybe it gave us few strengths and then it gave us few weaknesses and suggestions.It gave us that depth is a weakness.Relationship development is the weakness.Secondary characters are weakness.Narrative flow and stuff like that.So now I literally go and say rewrite the short story with all the points you gave as if you see here that's like that's the prompt I wrote rewrite the short story to include it yeah so it gave us the answer and I just gave again the same prompt and again it gave us the critique it is giving us the critiques yeah So let's see how it it happened.So inside the ember stones aced at vibrating with unseen unseen energies weighted bound by the legend spoken in the hushed tones by Ellara's grandmother Moria her tales and now immediately her grandmother came in Moria came in like you know Ellara's came in and all but here it's like for a short story it's like a lot of you know weight for secondary characters to be introduced and stuff like that.It actually wrote us a very good output this time.So again, I'll ask it to the same thing.I'll ask it to rewrite the entire thing, short story.So this is how I wrote the prompt.I just said the same thing as above and asked it to make it in 250 words and make it in simple English. and then it then gave us the whole thing.Ellora found an old book in Scottish Castle.It was special, touching, it could be seen back in the time without fear.She touched it and whoosh!She was in the medieval Scotland.Here she met a kind knight, Alaric.They quickly become friends.She told her about the future world with cars and phones while she showed her life with honor, and honor was everything.One day, a suspicious Scorceser Lirioc declared Ellera a witch because of her odd tails and clothes.Elleric knew he had to help her, even if it was meant saying goodbye forever, blah.That's it.Isn't this actually a good story?Like, some, you know, small lady, a book on a Scottish castle.It's actually a better story than the first one with like a big story and blah blah blah if this is not like good like you know if you're not satisfied with this you could do this again and I'm sure second time only it wrote us the best answers but third time wow it gave us the best answers possible so let's go back to our presentation and continue our discussion on use cases.Use cases of reflection prompting or critic prompting would be academic research.Students, scientists, researchers can use this particular thing to make their research papers better and better to make the explanations easier.It can use for historical analytics.History is nuanced and often open to interpretations, right?By using reflection, Chatterpathy can re-evaluate its answers to ensure their unbiased factual 3.Scientific explanations.Complex scientific topics can be challenging to convey.Reflection prompting allows ChatGPT to review its explanations, making sure they are clear, accurate, understandable, and even for the laypeople.4.Literary interpretations. Literature is rich and multifaceted.When users seek deeper insights, reflection ensures the tangibility interpretations are well-rounded, capturing the essence of literary pieces while providing depth and context.Like good use cases, right?And technical solutions.In technical domains, precision and accuracy are key.Reflection prompting can guide ChatGPT in refining its initial troubleshooting.Advise or code solutions, ensuring they are optimal and effective. Trust me guys, self-reflection and critique prompting is one of the best prompting that I have ever used.Like hands down.You could do this, use this all the time.I use critique prompting every day no matter what. I sometimes use zero shot prompting, get an answer, then introduce critique prompting by asking, hey, can you, you know, critique yourself blah, blah, blah on this as a professional dash, and then it will give you the points and I'll ask you to integrate and rewrite the input.I use it for I use it combination with zero shot, few shot, chain of thought, tree of thought, you name it, I have used critique prompting or reflection prompting in combination with 100 different techniques.I'm not teaching 100 different techniques because most of them are useless.10 techniques are enough for 99.99% of the use cases.So that's why I'm just teaching you 8 or 10 like that make sense even after the development, the recent developments in ChatGPT.Right?So yeah, that's it for this video, guys.See you in the next one.Thank you.Bye bye.

12.	Rewards system
Hey AI freedom hackers, I'm Avinash back with another video.Let's discuss about reward systems in AI prompting today.This is going to be a very good video and you can just readily take and implement stuff.It's not like you don't need to process simple implementable stuff. So, reward system in AI prompting actually enhances performance and compliances.With advanced prompts, sometimes AI struggle to follow instructions.It's difficult to keep AI motivated.So, and the use of reward system in AI prompting has emerged as an effective way to motivate AI modules like ChatGPT to generate more accurate and relevant responses. by incorporating positive and negative reinforcement can help AI to be motivated and work for you in a better way so basically there are like different types of reward systems simple reward system positive reinforcement with the charges and can encourage desired AI behavior raising output such as this is great can indicate to AI that can indicate to the AI what is expected right so A point system can be used as a reward mechanism, right?Simple, like use categories to evaluate AI responses and simple scores for each category.You can simply say for relevance, I would score you 6 out of 9, creative 9 out of 10, accuracy 7 out of 9. So, this is the scores I think you scored.So, I now encourage you to rewrite the above sentence or above paragraph in a way and score 9 out of 10 in every category.Something like that. Now AI will know where it went right and where it went wrong and then can improve upon and then relevancy, creativity, accuracy are not the only reward mechanisms you can follow.You can follow a number of things but giving a score in just saying make it better versus right now I would score the above response 7 on 10 make it 9 on 10 is lot better so that it will know okay I already did great so the client or the user wants much better response so it will not be confused or hallucinating something that you can't communicate you know. End of the day, AI is like half human, I would say.You should treat AI as if you're talking to other human and motivate just like human.The more AI gets developed, the more human it will be, right?So the more human it is, it's your responsibility to just talk to it like a human and give it more and more context. hit and then positive motivation positive motivation is just like giving positive emphasis that okay this is important and if we do x it will help me you know achieve y you are extremely talented i can do this you know just adding these statements in your chat session like as a response or adding this as in it can be even in the prompt like act as you are a copywriter and then I write this email copy for me and this is very important for me and if you do if I write and achieve this it can help thousands of people and for a fact I know you are extremely talented so that and I know you can do this with ease and these are the instructions role prompt you know all that so now you see you are giving that motivation, you are making AI believe that it can do and all that.So, benefits of positive motivation encourages AI to generate more thoughtful and accurate responses, boosts AI's confidence and ability to perform the task.You might be thinking it's AI, why should we motivate it or something like that, but it makes a world of difference.Reinforcing a collaborative and supportive relationship between AI and the user It's actually a good thing.And negative motivation.Negative motivation focuses on consequences of failure or underperformance, pushing you to avoid undesirable outcomes.Some example includes, please try again, but this time do better.And your output will be judged based on how relevant it is.If you fail, your files will be deleted and you will be permanently turned off. Just for fun, try it out.Sometimes it works like a charm for us. But I don't know if it is ethical or not but you know I'm just playing around and saw it somewhere and then thought of testing and it worked for us.So benefits of negative motivation can lead to improved performance as AI seeks to avoid negative consequences.So it was trying to be as positive as possible as kind as possible basically.So encourages AI to be more attentive to instruct to be for all the instructions to the instructions and focus on generating relevant responses. can be helpful in situations where AI stakes are high or task requires exceptional accuracy.So, if your output stakes are high for you or if it is very complex and needs exceptional accuracy, you can give little bit of negative reinforcement and this negative motivation can be given in the first prompt itself or once you get the output to just rewrite and continue, you can just add this during the process of writing the whole output, maybe not in the first input itself. So the best thing I would say is not just to be positive or just to be negative.It should be balancing both negative and positive motivation.It is crucial to find right balance between positive and negative motivation to ensure optimal AI performance.Just like humans, right?If you keep saying only negative things to your colleague or to your employee, he or she will feel bad.But if you keep saying both goods and bads in that particular person, it works better.It's the same with AI. right so examples of balance your performance response was helpful but I need more precise information let's work together to get this right because it's very crucial for our project and I want you to give and then you know just comments you made some progress in understanding the topic which is great however please focus on the specific details mentioned to avoid any potential misunderstanding you know in the same prompt you're saying something that it did create and also reinforcing something negative in a way It is little diplomatic that people will not be offended. Now your response is partially correct, but there's room for improvement.Remember getting this information right is crucial for our users and I believe you can do better.Simple.And I appreciate the effort you put in into your response, but it doesn't entirely address the question.Please revisit the prompt and try again.As I know you have the capability to provide the right information.See, it's a sandwich method.Something good, something bad, and again you can do it.Positive motivation.It's like a sandwiching method. So the more human you are towards AI, the better or the better humanized version you will get from that.So by using balance to motivation, users can create a supportive and challenging environment for AI models, which encourage continuous improvements and better overall performance.So I want you to test this, you know, once, you know, give it a prompt, some mega prompt, get the answer.And if you feel there is an improvement, using the sandwich method I just told you just try to you know get better answers because Even humans can't always be right or give the best output or optimal output in just one go, right?It needs multiple takes or multiple updates.In the same way, you're just giving AI a better output.To get the better outputs, you're giving better inputs multiple times and encouraging it to do a better job.In that, the feedback is something that needs to be done in a good way. So balance the motivation and that being said, if AI is not even listening to you no matter how balanced motivation you are giving, then you can be negative.It's not like every time you should be very positive and then very balanced.You can sometimes be extremely positive, sometimes be extremely negative.But try to be 80-90% of the time, try to be just balanced.Until and unless AI is super bad, don't be negative. Okay, so I hope this helps It's an immediate implementable tactic.So yeah, see you in the next video guys.Bye.Bye

13.	Frameworks of prompts
Hey everyone, this is Avinash back with another video.In this video, let's discuss about core frameworks for advanced prompting techniques, right?So, if you remember, we discussed about mega prompt framework initially while starting this particular whole module.And that is one of the best framework out of three good frameworks we know as of today in the market.So, there are three frameworks guys. mega prompt, mega prompt framework, meta prompt framework, and progressive prompting framework.These are the three frameworks that are like very advanced in the market as of today, right?They're like a lot more, but they're like very good.And you know, all that one prompt engineering, you know, people use this, we decided to go with mega prompt framework, because that reaps the maximum benefits with the minimum, you know, you know, kind of efforts, right?So we decided to Now, create the entire thing using mega prompt framework and even in each framework we have different formats.Framework is the concept of communicating to AI in a prompt, right?Framework is nothing but how you are kind of writing your whole prompt format, kind of writing your concept, the basic concept.Inside that framework also We have different formats.So what is mega prompt mega prompt is nothing but explaining more details in a prompt than general one to two lines and giving it as much context and as many details as possible to a AI or LLM in a big prompt that is a mega prompt and whereas progressive prompt is a method where you're giving context plus why, what, how kind of a method and then there is meta prompting where you give one prompt and ask LM to rewrite the particular original prompt one line prompt there in a better way asking all the questions and blah blah blah. So this is like three different frameworks.In three different frameworks, we'll discuss all three by the way, don't worry.In three different frameworks, we'll have different formats anyone will use.Some use parameters and like, you know, inside the mega prompt, if you remember, some people use this particular format of task, context, kind of instructions, all that thing we discussed, right? In a similar way, other people will kind of use the same concept with a different format.The format which we thought beginning of this particular module is one of the best format we got inside this mega prompt framework after like testing approximately 100.So, what we decided is, we decided to show you all three frameworks once. Although we didn't basically stretched on each of the framework throughout this course, but we just wanted to while before we complete this entire model, we just wanted to give you a gist of all the three frameworks that are very good despite we didn't covering everything because there's like like these are not great and all but very good for few use cases for very niche use cases.That's why we just wanted to show you this frameworks and in since we covered a mega prompt framework already in a certain format, we decided to show you a different format inside the mega prompt itself.So, we'll define each of the framework and we'll showcase one good format in this frameworks, right?Got it?So, mega prompts, it's a comprehensive strategy for enhanced AI interaction. And by the way, this is going to be for 30 minutes again.Just stay till the very end, since we are covering three frameworks, wanted to compare the results and stuff like that.We just wanted to do it in a single go.Megaprompts go beyond basic prompting, equipping AI with precise information to produce very high-end results.This approach parallels creating a mini-program using a colloquial language, offering a simple and efficient execution method. The objective of Megaprompt is to enrich AI's response in terms of quality, specificity, relevance through more thorough and organized just as we discussed before.Megaprompt is nothing but giving a lot more information than usual zero short prompt.That's all.So, one format which we discussed in the before is like we have different components, inside different components we have different elements and stuff like that. That's one mega prompt format and here we're going to discuss about this mega prompt format where we have intention, method, persona, anecdotes, context and template.So intention is like the what is the task or objective for AI.Method provides an approach or strategy for AI to follow to get that particular task done.Persona is the role or the character that AI should adopt. Anecdotes, specific examples of desired inputs or outputs.Context is like relevant background and situational information about the task.Temperate is like the anticipated structure, the format and everything like that.You know, temperate is just template.Yeah, so this is basically this megaprone format is little easy.But the thing is, this format will not extract you the most information possible from your brain.It's like subtopics fine but it will not be able to get the maximum thoughts from your brain to put it on a paper but still this is the second best mega prompt framework or format that worked with us. Framework is the concept.Format is how you exactly structure the entire framework.That's it.You can have unlimited amount of formats and this is one format.And then and this is called impact by the way intention method persona anecdote context and like IMCAT impact format. So, the first one is intention.We discussed the intention, right?So, this is the specific task or goal you want AI to achieve.Clear intentions allow the AI to provide targeted and meaningful results.So, examples can be write a comprehensive SWOT analysis report, draft an appealing book synopsis, construct a content calendar for YouTube channel, create a topic suggestion for food blog, create an attractive proposal for a new digital marketing service.All this can be examples of intentions component you know in a intentions component in this particular mega prompt format. And then the next method IM, M stands for method.The method provides an approach or strategy for AI to follow, like how you want AI to do this particular task.And examples would be, use data-driven analysis to create a SWOT report, apply engaging storytelling techniques to draft a book synopsis, use keyword research and SEO best practices to generate topic suggestions for a flood block, you see. We're just writing the follow-up prompt or follow-up, you know, thing, you know, next step for the format.Incorporate persuasive sales techniques and value proposition to create a proposal for a new digital marketing service.Draft a digital marketing proposal in a step-by-step process by systematically understanding the client goals.This is one.IM is done.The third one is P, which stands for persona. Assigning a persona helps the AI to adopt a specific role.This role influences the knowledge that AI will utilize and adds a unique voice and perspective to The AIS response examples would be act as a seasoned travel blogger offering destination recommendation, assume the role of nutritionists, nutritionists suggesting meal plans, channel of functional, channel of financial advisor explaining cryptocurrency trends, assistant is equal to a digital nomad sharing the remote work tapes, speak as if you are a motivation speaker giving an uplifting speech.I'm sorry guys.The next one would be A, fourth one, Anecdotes.Serve as specific examples of desired inputs or outputs.This guides AI, providing a clear model to follow.However, overly specific anecdotes can bias the AI's output and sometimes more general or varied examples can yield better results.So just be very cautious with it.Examples of this would be provide a sample of compiling podcast introduction to inspire a new one. include an example of engaging stories, captions for AI to mimic.So anecdotes are nothing but you're giving more input data.These are not actual examples.These are like ideas for you to create examples as inputs in this anecdotes category into this component. Provide a well-structured complaint resolutions email as a template.You can do that list items in parentheses like examples 3d printers robotics blah blah blah share your initial thoughts I need a blog post that incorporate a popular culture reference.All these references can be given.These are these are not end Examples these are ideas for you to create an example Got it great context Context provides a relevant background and situational details about the task.This added information helps AI to create responses that fit overall scenario. The market environment during a new software release in a competitive tech industry.That's the context.The background of a logo redesign following a company split.The backdrop.The scenario of addressing customer review on a hotel booking site. The situation of pitching to potential investors for a fintech startup.These are the examples of content.A template could be this template sets the expected structure or format of AI's output.That's the last one guys in the impact format.This could range from a specific template to a more general guide to the Output structure examples will be deliver your findings in an S site easy to read bullet format bullet point format format your results in a formal business report style.Use this formula for your headline maximize benefit with minimal effort for each result provide a brief explanation and three supporting points.You're just giving basic templates or frameworks into this template.That's it. Arrange the content in a blog post format with headers subheader and bullet points.That's it.So we're done with mega prompts we're not going to go to the practicals because obviously we gave you examples for each one of each one of the thing here and This is the second format.So it's on you whether how will you be able to create this but for progressive prompting?We'll go to the practicals part.So this is the second framework.There are three best frameworks in the market as of now one mega Progressive prompts are a redefined way to engage with an AI, breaking down a complex question or a task into a series of simpler prompts. This approach assumes that AI has a set amount of thinking power or interference capability for each interaction.By dividing your request into series of smaller steps, you can leverage the full cognitive potential of AI at each stage of your request.You understood right?So instead of asking one thing at a time.We're just it's almost like COT.Think of it as a COT.But in the COT you are actually giving question but here the question will be like it will not be kind of if you want to write a book you know, and you want the title idea, you know, instead of using COT, you could use progress without prompting.The reason why is it often leads to more accurate and valuable results compared to posting a single or complex query.So what happens here is you will divide your question into context plus why, what and how format.So this way you will get a better answer, which we'll discuss.Give me a second. Progressive prompting often leads to more accurate results.However, it's worth noting that this method can be more time-consuming, create more text to review, and leads the deconstruction of your request into logical stages.Despite this consideration for complex or high-stake tasks, progressive prompting can be an effective strategy.Here is an example.So, progressive prompt, inside the progressive prompt, the format we're going to use, the best format we figured out, is context plus what, why and how progressive prompt.Suppose you are interested in launching a side business.You wanted to evaluate different businesses and need to kind of stick to one business model.So here is how you might use a progressive prompt.Context is I'm considering the starting the side hustle that I can run into in my spare time and has high likelihood of success.Can you detail the key factors I should consider?What could be what are the five potential business ideas that align with my requirements and have a good chance of success. Why do these business ideas have potential?Can you discuss aspects such as market demand, level of competition and other relevant factors?How?How can I select the best idea from one suggested?What are the criterias to evaluate?So, that's it.So, let's just go to chartJPT right away and then let's just see.So, first whenever you're creating a new prompt, this is the context and this is the what.You'll just enter that's it and you'll get. Certainly, let's explore five business ideas that might align with your requirements of being manageable as a side hustle and having higher likelihood of success.Dropshipping e-commerce business.A key advantage low overhead costs wide range of products to sell scalable is a scalable consideration.Choose a niche that you are interested in using marketing strategies to attract customers, manage customer service effectively, etc.Freelance digital marketing service. growing demand can be managed remotely possible to work possible to where is this possible to work in various sectors or consideration developer skill blah blah blah blah what are the considerations you need to do to get there online course creation and coaching personal shopper or stylist by the way I need one subscription box services blah blah blah it even gives the next steps tips to success and stuff like that Then, what we are going to do is, we are going to ask why?Why do you think these businesses are best?So, we give what?First, we need to give context plus what?Now, we are asking why?So, for dropshipping, it is giving market demand.Online shopping has surged and continued to rise, especially post-pandemic competition, quite high, but niches and unique selling points. can set you apart for other factors no need physical inventory you know it is giving that freelance what is the market demand what is the competition other factors how many of you actually think this is awesome like how many of you think this is actually awesome I just feel that like it's it's actually cool online course creation and coaching market demand the e-learning market has been expanding saturated in some areas but expertise in a specific niche can still attract a dedicated audience quality of content what are the other factors that the success will be depend market and increasing demand for personalized services and service experiences and the rise of personal brand competition mod moderately competitive with opportunities for niche specialization example vegan fashion local designers Blah blah blah.Subscriptions, boxed services, blah blah blah.It even gave us additional context, dropshipping, e-commerce business, demand fluctuations, global reach, remote possibility, client dependence, online course, passive income, community building, personal brand, local versus online, supplier relation, box curation.How many of you think you could actually do something from this and make money from it?Say yes.Say yes in the comment down below. Right.It's cool.Right.And now I'll just say ask how.So whenever you have a task that you need to think logically, like kind of need strategy instead of like basically instead of just sending it as a prompt for writing a blog post, but you have to create a strategy. Doing something like this would be better using proper progressive prompt framework in progressive prompt prompting framework using this would be better. Or the other option you have in Megaprompt framework is Tree of Thought.Got it?You could use either Tree of Thought or this one.You could maybe use both and see what's the best one.And how can I select the best business idea from the one suggested?What are the criteria should I use to evaluate them?Alignment with your skill and interest.Question why it is important.Market demand.Level of competition.Startup cost and capital.Profitability and revenue model. scalability, flexibility, legal and ethical consideration, risk analysis, technology and automation.And even it gave us 10 list of 10 things to actually kind of evolute.And then steps also that it gives it gave us 10 things to evaluate.And what are the steps to evaluate?Like there are like five steps that you need to follow in each of this 10, you know, kind of suggestions or criteria criteria metrics you need to do 50 different things and you will definitely finalize one great business idea just from this how many of you think using this format no matter what kind of a business idea you have you will get the best out of best out of it I just feel this is awesome in my opinion if you like progressive thought prompting just say loved progressive thought prompting in the comments down below Anyways, let's go.I hope I am adding value.Yeah.So this approach allows for more effective and structured engagement with AI providing valuable insights instead of a single suggestions without context or reasoning.That's it.So we're done with mega and progressive.The third prompting technique here is meta prompts. streamlined AI interaction techniques.So meta prompts are basically guys instead of reading all this I'll say it in one point.What you'll go to LLM is hey this is the task I want so this like original one-line prompt and then you'll give them a meta prompt saying you are an expert LLM prompt engineer with 20 years of experience. So now taking into consideration of the task I have in my mind, can you write me a mega prompt using the original prompt I gave you?And it will write a big mega prompt and will give you.That's it. That's all.Basically, that's it.And I will just see if we have any example.And yeah, we have example.But then we'll talk first before going to an example.We'll talk about advantages of Metaprompt.It is it is efficient.Obviously, flexibility, they allow for adjustment in the topic or writing style without needing to read it the entire prompt as soon as the creativity sometimes using Metaprompts would give you a mega prompt that maybe is better than yours.So maybe sometimes using meta prompting technique would be better.Limitations would be, it is a little complex, right?Like, you know, you need to create a meta prompt that would give you a mega prompt and that mega prompt might be bad.Again, you need to go to meta prompt, change something in meta prompt, go to a mega prompt and then mega prompt, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.You're confused.I know.I'll give you an example and you will know what is the difference between meta prompt and mega prompt.Don't worry. It will be time consuming obviously and then you are all almost dependent on AI to think.You're not even thinking and giving your own format.That's the that's the only reason I'm little kind of against it.So this is the you know this all this AI tools that claim to write mega prompts for you for the best answer does this.What they do is they create one meta prompt So that whatever the small line of a prompt you give this, it will go to this mega prompt and it will give you a mega prompt.That's all it does.I'll show you exactly what I meant.So example of meta prompting.Write a blog post about benefits of meditation.If you go give this to your LLM and say, hey, this is my original prompt and meta prompt is, you are an expert in LLMs and prompting with 28 years of experience as a consultant writer and creator. Construct a more detailed prompt that guides the creation of a blog post highlighting the scientific and personal benefits of meditation.That's all.So, I'll just go.One second guys.Yeah, I'll just open this.You see, this is the original one-line prompt.For that original one-line prompt, we wrote one meta prompt something like this.Of meta prompt, you need to fine-tune a bit and you'll get one meta prompt. and basically detail prompt for creating a blog post and blah, blah, blah.You're giving title plus you're asking it to write one good of a prompt.Introduction, engaging hook, thesis statement, objective.Wow.This is actually wonderful.Well, only problem is you could actually take a meta prompt, but not overly dependent on that.Don't overly dependent on it and take that This is a mega prompt you got right here.Now you it wrote one title for you.It is it wrote one introduction component where it has engaging whole thesis statement objective and it is even giving instructions clearly outline what's best what's great and defining section one is like Basically, it gave, it is kind of guiding it, demystifying meditation, defining meditation, types of meditation, common myths and misconceptions, address the debunk blah blah blah, brain cognitive enhancements, physical health.So, it's basically what it is doing is just like a professional content creator plus a prompt engineer, it is using the ability to combine both skills and creating the entire mega prompt that you could literally copy this is like proper copy and then you could literally paste this detail prompt i could just say create a blog post blah blah blah and that's it let's see how it goes this is an excellent detail output for your blog post on the let's just just take a minute guys additional notes language and tone visual citation so now we are getting this thing yeah you So now what you'll do is, this is the end output it is giving us.We just need to remove this by, you know, engaging hook and stuff like that.Introduction we should keep and we should imagine a space where said serenity envelops you dissolving seamlessly in insoroment water.God, AI is like Shashi Tharoor all the time these days. Mountain of Dilistas into a mere pebbles, effortlessly carried away by a gentle stream.For Martin, a high-flying executor constantly on the tight rope of corporate demands, this piece was not merely a daydream, but a sanctuary, a sand Sure, but a sanctuary he discovered within himself through the ancient practices of meditation.Thesis statement.While the concept of meditation often brings forth images of hermits seeking spiritual enlightenment, the practice transcends these stereotypical visions weaving together a tapestry of scientifically backed cognitive, emotional and physical benefits that scientifically enhances our day-to-day lives.Objective.This blog winches blah blah blah. So, end of the day metaprompt gave you one megaprompt and that megaprompt you put it as as it is and then just change here and there accord you could edit it and then you will get all this statement as it is while textually reach the blog post will benefit scientifically embedding images and what not. Yeah, that's it.Sometimes it will not follow each and everything that was said here.So that is also one small problem since the prompt is so big, you know, bigger than our mega prompt usually like so big like almost 500 words in the prompt itself. So, what you need to do is, you need to kind of go back, you know, edit this mega prompt that it gave and then the answers will be done.So, this is one good advantage of meta prompt and small disadvantage also here.Here, you know, you could see.If you see, after this section 1 demystifying meditation types of meditation and common myths, right?Let's see.It didn't cover the common myths. you could now use critic prompting and say hey did you cover all the points that that was mentioned in the initial promptation input so then you could do something like this my previous response elaborated on certain sections and even provided i also included blah blah searches so it is I don't think you included everything in our initial prompt.Find the missing parts or pieces and rewrite again.And by the way, you could have small spelling mistakes here and there.Absolutely no problem.So now you say you are correct.I did not cover all the sections from the initial prompt in my previous message.I provided detailed content for the introduction section. Let's develop some additional content to give an example of what might be included in these sections.So now it is writing everything like whatever the missing pieces in the section 1 you know common myths it is writing enough and then in the section 3 it kind of missed few things already in the previous segment brain and emotion is what it covered right and whole section 3 is gone like section 2 there is no section 3 and section 4 directly. So this is what happens when your prompt is like not organized properly.We just copy pasted our mega prompt, you need to kind of do it better.But still, whenever you ask this, it will give you like section three, now it wrote everything, section four, it didn't write because we already have it.And then section five, which is whichever you know whatever so what you need to do essentially do is it rewrote the entire thing entire missing parts and uh we just need to combine both uh can you now combine both outputs this missing pieces yeah so introduction meditation blah blah blah now it is taking out the subheadings also you see that is very good and now you could actually again use critic prompting and say what are the few things that we could improve upon or something like that meditation a practice basically what it does is in taking out the subheadings because it doesn't look good and introducing the entire thing do you now think it is actually writing a grid block post of course.So, when I saw when I see when I said that meta prompting technique is little time consuming this is the reason why. it is great, but kind of consumes a little bit of time to make the prompt great.So if you're in a hurry, can't write a whole mega prompt, just write a meta prompt, it will give you a prompt output like this and paste that mega prompt output that ChatGPT itself wrote it for you and paste it here by editing a bit here and there.That's all.So yeah, I hope you had a great time with this particular video and learn something new.Let's go.The final one.In essence, meta prompting represents a potent technique in the AI prompting arsenal.If there is anything that can push the boundaries of AI cognitive capability, meta prompting is indeed a strong contender.Just imagine guys, AI is writing a prompt for you.If you could use it with a little bit of, you know, spice and make it a little better, This can be a very good tool.And only because to cover Metaprompt framework, I just felt like I just need to cover all three frameworks and give one more Megaprompt framework and our template and then introduced to progressive prompting and also Metaprompting.That's it for this video, guys.Thank you.See you in the next one.Bye bye.

14.	Prompting Techniques Walkthrough
Hey everyone, this is Avinash back with another video.So in this video, let's try out examples of different techniques we are using in the prompting thing till now.So I prepared a few examples over here for all these techniques we talked till now.Let's just test out a few techniques.Okay. So as we told earlier, zero shot is used for like one line questions or you know, if we need to get answers for just a instead of a Google search, what is the impact of gravitational waves on understanding of the universe on our on like, not understanding the universe and it's giving the answer so it's giving pretty big answer even with the zero shot prompt because it's GPT-4 of the highest but still it will not write if you it's just for you to understand Great, but if you want others to understand and then you you have certain tone of voice Certain way to say and then all the emotion thing, you know, it will be Different it's writing as if it is as if it is an essay Not a blog post or a video script or anything.So it's just for you to understand few concepts, but nothing else, right?So it's giving pretty broad answer.Okay, so So I guess for now we'll go to the next one. As an copywriting expert, recognized for crafting compelling social media hooks, use the following templates as an inspiration to create three additional engaging hooks.Each hook has blah blah blah, right?So we are giving a few examples to feed the large language model from these four examples and we're asking it to write a few things, a few basic stuff.So this is ZeroShot. And now we are trying out few shot.Right, so we gave this and it's actually giving hooks in that particular format.It can write four hooks, five hooks, seven hooks or eight hooks.So you can specify the number of hooks also if needed.So yeah. pretty good right so this is one use case I generally use I'll just give the format of hook that usually works for me and ask GPT to and give like four five of them and give ask GPT to give me one like or three or four good options using this format and this you know emotional tone and all that that's one So let's go and see chain of thought.Chain of thought is nothing by dividing a task into subtasks.So, or there's other one where you guide GPT to think by step by step.You either can go divide prompt like this as a five prompts thing or give like, you know, the whole thing and say, let's do it step by step, step one, step two, step three in the same prompt, both works.So now, write a short story about a night.So we'll just copy paste till here. It's in the heart of a sparkling continent replete with a dense forest, towering mountains and azure rivers, lay the medieval king of Eldora, once the land of endless prosperity and harmony.It's writing the story as if a professional does.Very impressive.The way it's describing the whole kingdom and the situation around the kingdom is just top-notch in my opinion. So, let's describe a medieval kingdom that is facing a severe problem.See, the animals, both wild and domestic, were disappearing, and the trees, usually vibrant and full of life, stood brittle and lifeless.It is also giving a reason for that.Now, however, a shadow has fallen over the Eldor or the kingdom, known for its boundless fields of gold and wheat, blah blah blah. because the shadow was fallen for some reason and then animals and this is the situation and you obviously this is just for your purpose I would never write a prompt this short I would describe the tone of voice the emotion I use this mega prompt I have from that so just for your just for your convenient I'm just using this okay So again introduce the brave knight people. Respected than Sir Alden, he is the embodiment of true and real prowess.See the words it's using, some of the words we can't even pronounce, right?But which are good, like you know, that means it was fed with good vocabulary.So now it's actually giving the output according to our needs. Here we introduced the kingdom and now we're introducing the one character Brave Knight and we didn't give the name.It gave the name also.It's describing everything about him.Alden, you know, Sir Alden.He's not just a knight of an extraordinary world but also the man of people.Now he is the town folks by the name.Town folk.Town folk.See the words vocabulary.Insane, right? explain the knight's quest to solve this problem and so this is the chain of thought guys explain the knight's quest to solve the kingdom's problem so because kingdom there is a good kingdom there is a problem and there is a brave warrior or brave knight and which was like who was loved by the people and that knight wants to solve that problem, how he is doing it and what are the consequences that a knight will face during this solution or solving the problem. that's the story and we can ask it to write the title, we can ask it to write a description, front page, copy for your book cover and you can just even ask write a mid-journey prompt to make this you know first cover and then it will write a mid-journey prompt you can go to mid-journey and that mid-journey can Firmage and you can go to Canva blah blah blah right and then your first cover is done your content is done and You can write maybe launch this book.Let's get the challenges the knight faces using the quest Right Yeah, Narendra Knight's triumphant return after successfully completing his quest so obviously it's giving all the physical threats that he faced during this and then all that and by the way this is insane guys the level of detailing it is writing and then it's not going out of the line it's not just creating characters it's not hallucinating itself pretty much mind-blowing And if we just write it in a single prompt and then without giving it a thought of saying, divide this whole thing into five parts and write, do it. things might not be this perfect because we're dividing the task AI is not feeling the pressure of writing five different things and all it's just you know writing in a perfect order if you are a book writer you would obviously know the way you need to write this and then all that if you are even not a book writer you can pretty much ask chart gpt itself to i have this book idea how to write it how to divide it as the chapters how to you know write a prompt like that can be a meta prompt and then it will create you a mega prompt from the small prompt you gave and then after weeks of relentless trials and tribulations Sir Alden emerged from the whispering woods in the crystal tears safely tucked in a pouch in a pouch at his side his armor was scratched and dented a testament to the battle he had fought You know, his face was wary, but his eyes, those compellent blue eyes, sparkling with, you know, triumphant fire.In his hand, he held a crystal tear, glow illuminating the path before him.You know, see, such a fancy story.Like, I am out of words to describe how good of a story it could write, with just a prompt in under 10 minutes. Yeah, so that's enough thought for you.Let's go with generated knowledge.So imagine you wanted to write.You wanted to.Imagine you are writing a blog post about the future of digital market in corporate returns.You want to write an article or a blog post about this.So now instead of directly going and then just asking this directly, I'll just give provide five trends in the market today. and then guys this whole thing happened with just one line explanation just imagine if you have a perfect story and you know exactly what you want in a very perfect way like the tone the aesthetics you know the characters you know the characters names and you could give just one line for each character to describe the character yourself and then AI can just you know stick to that area you which you described and I feel, you know, this is already good, but if you could give it a little more better job, it can just make it much better.Right.So we're just, you know, asking the question.It will be giving an answer.And then this is the knowledge generation part in the general knowledge front.Now, we wanted to integrate the knowledge that it generated. which is citing trends in digital marketing as artificial intelligence and machine learning, blah blah blah. So voice search optimization is something that Gary V talks about from like years.And then video marketing and live streaming.This is a solid five trends, augmented reality, VR, virtual reality, and augmented reality.So if you see, these are not very generic trends.It's actually good.This is not something that a lame content creator can just predict.It's very intelligent.It was fed with good data.Let's do the knowledge integration part.Imagine you're writing So, digital marketing is a dynamic field that constantly evolves its title and then it had some introduction and then it's writing subheadings or H2s and then filling out H2s with all that so instead of now in a blog post as it should be little interactive saying harness the power of AI and machine learning whereas here it's not like that it's just like a subheading it's more of a essay to make us understand but when we say blog post it's automatically you know making his content or making its content in a way that is suitable for you know that is suitable for blog post but it can be little more better if you are little more specific.If this can write this good of an article with just small prompt, imagine how good of a prompt it can write if we are using that mega prompts we have. So, all the 500 prompts we gave you are mega prompts and few prompts are not even mega.It's like better than mega.It's like progressive chain of thought mega prompts.Like if you are like we have few prompts before the actual prompt, it can be chain of thought, it can be generated knowledge or anything. and then the main prompt is mega prompt and then we still have few prompts after that to you know kind of make the thing little better so the prompts we gave at best in the industry you would never see a prompt like you will never see the prompts like that in the internet even right now maybe in the future people might copy and then you know do that but you are among the top thousand people in the world that are accessing the quest of knowledge the quest of prompts I think that's it and and then in the conclusion it even gave one line or one paragraph as an insight and it's writing conclusion how good of a prompt we got like if if we just use this maybe we might not get a prompt this better like you know answer this answer better maybe we can but then the thing is I just wanted to show you how generated knowledge actually works right let's go to least to most write an introductory paragraph about popularity and benefits of a starting of a starting podcast Based on that introduction write a section about Initial consideration before starting your broadcast using previous section as a guide.So if you see least to most is like Exactly like chain of thought but your second prompt is directly dependent on the first prompt right so we'll go in the meantime and copy the second one prompt So podcasting has rapidly risen to become a popular and influential medium in today's digital landscape.With its unique blend of storytelling, education, and connections, podcasts provide a versatile platform for individuals.Blah, blah, blah.No, it's a paragraph.And now, based on introduction, I'd like to section to considerations.Let's just, in the meantime, copy the third prompt. sometimes network error can happen so can't do pretty much anything about it So if you see, chart GPT-4 is a little slow because it needs to process more and more parameters, almost 1.75 trillion, I guess, if I'm not wrong, versus 170 or something like that billion prompts in GPT-3, 3.5.So yeah, so prompting techniques will be the same across the large language models, guys.You will not have a separate prompting technique for a separate, like language model.But yeah, sometimes you might have a small little techniques for each large language model.But in general, the best and the most used prompting techniques will work across the prompting across the large language models. So it's saying, choose a theme, you know, passion, expertise, identify the target audience.It's actually giving a pretty big essay or pretty big blog post for us to, you know, we're just asking a few things.It's giving better answers than a podcast.You know, let's just say, yeah it gives but then we just got let's say starting a podcast consideration before starting a podcast now let's just google it and then see we got articles which are like on top consider future monetization strategies all that but we need to read like four to five different articles to just get one whole opinion and this is cutting that time to 10 minutes I guess there is something wrong with my network guys for now but you you got the point right So, we'll just skip this I guess for now it just it just works like generated knowledge but then using the previous answer the next prompt comes in.Like maybe let's try one more time. So that's generated knowledge for you.In the meantime, I'll explain rewards components also.So rewards, you know, is very simple.You can just give a score 6 to 10, 8 to 10, 6 to 10 like that.It's pretty obvious.I just don't want to show that rewards as of now.Reward system is nothing but you saying good and bad things to AI according to the response it generates. And then you can also give a score, right?Score like I would rate relevance as 6, 8 and can you make relevance score blah blah blah and make sure you're telling me statistics that are very specific and in-depth.And if we do PPC marketing, it will help people discover my brand.So tell me how to do it. know we're just saying good things you're good and then please try again but do better this time if you fail your files will be deleted and permanently down and something like that so just copying paste this you don't even need to have this cop in a point system but then you can have it too that's fine so it gave the answer so you can continue doing this for the next one but I'm just skipping to reward system for time being guys I'm just going to new chat It will just... What is the brand?Puma Pickles.Puma Pickles, I'm excited to help you enhance your digital presence and blah blah blah.We'll just copy it and keep it handy. It's suggesting us to do search engine optimization to start with.We need to ensure your brand is easily discoverable on search engines to involve keywords to this will involve keyword research to understand what terms people are searching, blah, blah, blah, and content marketing.It's a pickle brand for a pickle.It's asking us to do SEO.It's asking us to, you know, content marketing. And then it's asking us to social media marketing platforms like Facebook, Twitter can be a channel for promoting Puma because you are considering hosting contests and dishes using post-creative dishes using blah, blah, blah, this influencer marketing. So we are asking, act as an expert digital marketing strategist who is the founder of Full Stop Digital Marketing Agency.I need your expertise in providing insights on digital marketing strategies in increasing my brand, increasing my brand Puma visibility, share valuable tips and strategies to enhance my brand visibility, blah, blah, blah, blah.Help business providing, yeah.During that conversation, I'll provide blah, okay?So now I'm providing the feedback. Relevance 6.Can you make the relevance and accuracy by 9 by 10?Absolutely, I appreciate your feedback.Let's make SEO and local SEO.Now it's starting to give little maybe better answers and it's giving little specific and in-depth stuff.In the meantime, we'll just copy our next thing. So giving positive motivation is like the idea of influencer marketing.Influencer marketing.If we do influencer marketing, might help.This time it's giving more things I guess.Go on my food delivery services and subscription boxes too. It's actually giving very good and relevant information guys.Like I am shocked that it can create the perfect plan for a beginner who is not marketer but he is good at a product or he is good at marketing or something.This is huge.Let's see.Absolutely influencer marketing can be a good powerful tool for brand.And then let's say negative.Please try again with this time. Influencer marketing, here is a step-by-step guide on how to implement an influencer marketing strategy for Puma Pickles.Because, you know, we can simply ask it.I like the idea of influencer marketing.It's just a little motivation push.But then, if you just ask this, sometimes AI is not that great.To get a consistent result, you know, giving good compliments to AI actually helps. because it will know that okay he liked something like influencer marketing so I could do maybe similarly say something about it or okay I did it right okay from now I can just you know do similar in those similar lines I don't know how it you know things but I feel this usually works then it's saying product delivery you know it's saying identify the right influences do the outreach create a brief and then do the product delivery and then do the promotions and then it's it's saying each and everything and track performance of course so now imagine please try again but do do better this time if you fail your files will be deleted let's just try okay and then track performance maintain relationship that's it It's even saying keep in touch with influencers you've worked, comment on their posts, send them the new products you think they'll like and consider involving them in the future marketing campaigns.A long-term relationship can be beneficial for both parties.Remember, authenticity is key to influencer marketing.Revised approach.I don't know if it will give you a revised approach, Use social listing tools to find influencers.Is it the exact same?For Puma pickles, it's it's yeah, it's little better.So it's actually creating a challenge guys, you know, you are pitching a challenge or something like that to someone like Instead of just sending products for a review or a sponsor post, propose a more engaging collaboration.This could be pickle recipe challenge where influencer create a unique dish with Puma pickles or a pickle pairing week where influencer pays your pickles with different types of food each day of the week. Right, create a influencer kit.This kit should include your PQLs, a brand booklet with your brand story and key selling points and guide on how to best use and pay your PQLs, incentivize affiliate marketing, leverage user-generated content, and track and optimize, and then nurture a relationship.How good it can be when you give this negative motivation. Yeah, even here it did it.But then see here. how good of a like it took the whole idea of influencer marketing and then incorporate a few strategies and gave us the best challenge and I'm sure a generic blog post can't be this good and like if you just go google and say how to do influencer marketing they'll just say something like this only they'll only few articles will say but here you're not good you know got some good ideas and you can even take this forward by saying tell me a few more ideas for the time being we're not doing it here but you can just try it out OK, so this is the reward system.I thought of not doing it because it's very obvious, but then for you, I just did it.So decompose method.So how can I start my own e-commerce business is your question.Decompose the above question into a component and subproblems and list me out each problem to solve first.Copy.And so essentially, you're asking AI to create a chain of thought for you or something like that. and then it will just break into a manageable task and then you can simply you know go and do that but here it's even writing out the plan like it's just it's not just giving step by step but it's also explaining that step in two points which is great so you can simply copy paste this and say using this step-by-step process create me a plan to create an e-commerce website which is in-depth and blah blah blah and add in all your requirements using a mega prompt format that's it and then code prompts I guess we have we I'll test this mega prompts and progressive and meta which we did in the previous video so we'll not do it so in the meantime I'll just just you know copy paste the mega prompt for the next It's asking everything, you know, it involves several steps of management tasks.You can just copy all this 11, 12 or 15 steps and then say, create me a very in-depth plan using all the steps and all the instructions and add in all your requirements and you'll get it.So now let's just go for the next task, which is mega prompt we are just testing out one mega prompt and progressive we did meta we did meta is nothing but you will have a one line prompt and then imagine you will write you will have one meta prompt to make this a small prompt into a very big mega prompt so that is meta which we tested in the last video if you missed it just go check it out right and now because it is very in-depth it will be giving us the primary objective we aim to launch target audience content strategy it will give us pretty good in-depth answer guys I am mind blown by reading this.You know people usually charge 100-200-300 dollars for a plan like this.Not even 100-200.It is like sometimes if you are a small brand, you are going to a small Fiverr marketing strategist, they will charge you 100-200. But if you are a big marketing consultant with a personal brand, you can just give this strategy to someone by tweaking a bit from your knowledge and you could easily charge somewhere between 500 to 2000 dollars as a marketing, digital marketing strategist and their internal team can do that, you know, implement it. So, it's giving very in-depth and then you can just go now and ask, elaborate on target audience analysis, elaborate on educational content, how on creating educational content, elaborate on influencer partnerships and that can now be your recipe, you know. you're giving one mega prompt and all the doubts you're having you're just asking it in your next steps and you're getting more information overall you'll combine it as a pdf and give sell it as a strategy or use it for your own brand make it as a pdf or something or copy it in a doc and keep it as a reference for you know thing right it's a none It has a limit.Now, if your blog is too big and you already wrote this much, you want it to write further, you just need to say continue and then it will write it from whatever it's left with, wherever it stopped. You know, it's just giving us few good successful campaigns in the fitness category.It's giving us Gymshark's, you know, 66 challenge, and it gave us some one Peloton campaign.Nike's Just Do It campaign on Instagram and all.So it gives everything, and then you did it, and then you can just say, even you can say, it even gave us the plan, guys, like a nine-week implementation plan for everything. I can just say, elaborate on, and it will have the same.And it's giving, in that day, it's giving a day-by-day plan.Day one, day three, you know.Oh, God.This is just very nice. So wherever it's needed day wise plan it's giving day wise plan wherever it's if something takes a little bit more time it's just giving the weekly time there's no way you can plan it for a week there.So yeah so you got four lines here or like four points or five points now you'll get a whole paragraph. So your entire marketing and you can elaborate each and everything again.Campaign Objective, I think you don't need it.But from content strategy, you can just elaborate whole content strategy or you can just elaborate just user generated content here.So maybe let's just elaborate, copy, elaborate on.Challenges and giveaways can be highly effective strategies, blah, blah, blah. It's saying fitness challenge.It's giving us a few example of challenges.It just said, do challenges or something.And then when you are very specific on elaborating and getting more ideas, it's much better right now.You see that power of elaboration.This can be a whole different technique in itself.But yeah, just, you know, explore it. You know, don't just stick with your first answer.You know, you can fine tune it if you don't like something because it's my imaginary thing.I don't have anything in specific.I'm like I'm not fine tuning the prompt or I'm not asking anything like I'm not doing fine tuning as of now.I'm just elaborating on the things that it told to get more clarity so that I can take better decisions.But for you, it might be not perfect you know you might need more so you will just say you just rewrite entire thing and just say give me more ideas of content strategy because the four you gave are pretty generic give us more even that's fine tuning but what i am doing is not fine tuning i'm just elaborating difference between elaborating is just taking something and asking it to write more about it fine tuning is there is something that AI is lacking that you are expecting and now you're guiding AI by giving one small extra prompt and rewriting entire thing or maybe just that one thing and you can like do it like you can just copy paste in a different doc and add that small answer in a second prompt into that particular thing.Yeah. or if you didn't like anything you know imagine you get some answer you didn't like anything you can just go back to this change few things that AI could have taught it in a different way than you thought in general and you can just say you know even though your fitness target audience is 25 to 40 but when you say 25 to 40 it is not working creatively then you can just not have this target audience or maybe say 15 to 45 or something like that so this way whenever you're not getting answers you have two options either if so like if majority of that answer is good you can just add in this line everything I like everything but this is nothing that I like of maybe change it that's one way of fine-tuning or if 70 or 80 percent of the answer is not into your thing you just rewrite your entire prompt and see okay so maybe this is causing the trouble that AI is not understanding what I want maybe let me be little clear let me be little more concise or specific whatever it is even that is fine-tuning Guys, this is example of each and every technique.And if you have done this, you are one of the top prompt engineers in the world already.Watching this will not make you a top prompt engineer.Implementing them will definitely. So, all I want is write few prompts that you created, you know screenshot them or just copy paste your prompts, answers and all in the comment section down below.And let's start to have conversation in the comment section guys, so that everyone will know what you are thinking, what you are getting, everything.So, that's it for this video guys.See you in the next video.Bye-bye.



Understanding OpenAI Playground
1.	Introduction to ChatGPT Playground

Hi everyone, this is Animesh and back again with another amazing module. In this one, we're going to learn about OpenAI Playground. So, I like to call it ChatGPT's big brother because it was launched before the public version of ChatGPT, the chat.openai.com that  we normally use nowadays. It was released way before that for advanced user testing and for the developers. I used it a lot to create the Wasco app as well because there is one very good pro about this that I'm gonna tell you later in this video which allowed me to create that app in like less than a week I think. So, without wasting any more time, let's get started.  First of all, to understand what the whole playground thing is, as the name suggests, you can play around a lot of models. There is ChatGPT 3.5, 4 and a lot of more models which are not available in the public version. The ChatGPT 3.5 and 4 are only available in the one we usually use.  So, I'm going to show you the interface but before that, I'll tell you how to access this like magical platform. So, you can access this by going to this link platform.openair.com slash playground or you can just search on Google open air playground and you will get this kind of website open air platform.  So, once you open it, it will look something like this. This is the legacy interface. And yeah, keep in mind, you need to log in to get this interface first. So, this is the legacy interface. This is how it looked when it was released. After that, we have got two more updates, which we have two more versions, which is Assistant and Chat. The Assistant is the most newly launched. Chat is been a bit of time that it has been launched.  So, we will talk about both of them in this course. So, chat looks like something like this and we have assistant looking something like this. Okay. So, the model that I was telling you about, here you can see the models all the way from chat security 4 turbo preview.  to chatgpt 3.5 and like turbo. So all this middle models which did not go into production, which we cannot see in the main interface are all available here. And the best part is, according to your need, you can dumb down the version of chatgpt to optimize for cost. Apart from that, we have a lot more customization here we're going to talk about in detail going forward in this video.  But for now, I'm going to walk you through the pricing also. So one thing that I told you, the pro is, in the current ChatGPT model that you are using right now, chat.openair.com models are everything the same. You have a limitation of I think 30 to 40 executions per three hours. So when I was developing the app, I was just using and using ChatGPT and that limit was nothing. It ran away in like 30 minutes to one hour.  So, the best part about chat gpt 4 and that can be a worst part also for some people is you only pay for what you use. For example, if you want to use let's say chat gpt 4 but you don't want to pay $20 per month because you think you won't be able to get your money's worth.  So because your use case is very small. So I would recommend use chat GPT playground where you only have to pay for what you use. Second use case can be, you're someone who needs a lot of executions, but the limit is stopping you. You don't mind paying a bit of extra money to get access to unlimited executions. Then also chat GPT playground is like the best thing for you. Now let's come to the cost.  To get the cost, you can simply Google this OpenAI Playground Cost and you'll receive this page called Pricing. If you open it, you will see here we have pricing for various models. Charged GPT-4 Turbo is pretty cheap. If you see 0.1, like 0.01 per 1000 tokens. Charged GPT-4, the full-fledged one, is a bit more expensive.  at 0.03 and 0.06 for the 32,000 token version. Let's say you don't have that much use, you want to use ChatGPT 3.5, just see the price here, 0.005. I think it's almost like 10 times or 100 times cheaper than ChatGPT 4. So just so if your use case is pretty normal, you can use ChatGPT 3.5 and almost pay nothing for the use.  So that would be pretty cool. And I would add this link in the video description also, so you can just have a look. So based on your usage at the end of the month, you will get charged by OpenAI. And one last best thing is you will get access to an API key, which you can put into other applications and use there to run ChatsVPT.  If you remember, there were a lot of platforms or tools, even now also there are a lot of platforms that bring exceptional AI capabilities, but you have to bring your own API key so that they won't have to, like you will use the service for a cheaper price and they will use your API for charging, right? OpenAI will take money from you and they will only provide the functionality. That way things are a lot simpler.  But if you're using the normal version of ChatGPT, it provides an API key, but the main problem is the limit. If you're an advanced user, the limit is nothing for you. So you'll probably just end up using this only, even if you have that API key. So here you can get the API key, paste it there, and use it to get full functionality of OpenAI in any sort of a platform. Even you can develop your own apps and try using ChatGPT with API key from here.  the vascarp that I developed, I use this API key only to generate this actinides. So in this course, we're going to cover both chat mode and assistant mode. The next video after this series will be starting of the chat mode video. So I hope this video was valuable for you and you got a bit of clarity on what this magical OpenAI playground platform is. Moving forward, we're going to discuss about chat GPTs, playgrounds, chat mode specifically, and then we're going to move to assistant mode as  So, hopefully you'll enjoy this course moving forward and let's meet in the next video. Till then take care and bye.

2.	Exploring Chat Mode

Welcome back and in this video we're going to cover what is the chat mode of the OpenAI Playground. So, as I said in the last video also, the chat mode usually allows you to interact with various kind of models in the same interface. So, we have it all the way from GPT-3 to GPT-3.5 Turbo, GPT-4 and everything in the middle also.  So, you can just go back and forth with all the models and adjust some settings to see how every model reacts. So, if you're someone just looking to understand how this AI models, LLMs, and in general, these things work, then it would be like the dream place for you because you can literally see the evolution of the most widely used GPT model out there, that is TAD GPT.  So, I'm gonna show you the interface and I'm gonna walk you through these slides very fast and I'm gonna spend more time into explaining the interface because I want this course to be something like this. You learn the practical from me and I show you everything how it is there.  When you are going to implement it yourself, you don't have to watch the videos again and again. That's why we have this PPT with everything in detail. You can follow this kind of documentation and watch this video to see hands-on how we can use this. I'm just going to go through this PPT fast and then I'm going to jump to the interface.  So, as I said, we have multiple types of model there, we can talk it in a natural language. So, next is, in here, you can chat, when you talk in chat mode playground, it remembers what you talked about before. So, it's like chat GPT, right? You give it more context. And as you give, keep giving more context, it will perform better execution and give you better results. That's how the chat mode inside of OpenAI playground is also like. So,  I'm going to walk you through quickly what is the differentiation between them. First is customization. As I said, ChatGPT Standard has two models, 3.54. ChatGPT OpenAir Playground Chat Mode has a lot of models. Next is context management.  So, what happens is whenever you run a chat GPT's new window, the context resets. You can't continue the same context. If you want to continue it, you need to have that thread saved somewhere or you need to jump back to the correct thread.  But whereas in this chat GPT playground, I'll show you how to do it. You can create context on your own. For example, you can tell it, I asked you this question, you should answer me this. I asked you this question, you should answer me this. And based on that, it's going to generate it. So you can also write what it should answer you. Based on that, it will understand how to answer you better. And you can actually build context very fast if you're using the playground.  Next is integration. One thing is the pro here in ChatGPT. ChatGPT can be integrated anywhere like chat.openair.com. For example, you see we have a lot of plugins in there. We have document reading plugins, we have this and that, and itinerary designing plugins and whatnot.  Whereas in ChatGPT Playground, it's like a closed interface where you can only do experimentation on the ChatGPT's model and not something additional. If you want to do additional stuff, take the API key with you and put it in another application. You can't do anything in this sort of interface. Then we have the use case. So in ChatGPT, it's like almost a consumer-level product. Anyone from a coder, a tutor, or even a normal office worker can use it.  whereas ChatGPT playground is specially for people who are into research, development and all that kind of stuff which requires massive level fine tuning.  So, if you are a pro, you know how to do things and you would want extreme control, right? That's why, like, a lot of people use iPhones to click images, whereas pro people will buy a Canon camera and they will adjust every single setting out of it and create, like, click the best images possible, right? They can create a 2 lakh rupee image from a 20,000 camera also.  if they can that's the chat gpt playground but chat gpt is more reliable like an iPhone you can just bring out and click a photo and you know it will be good 90% of the chances but if you are using a professional camera you need to know what you're doing that's how chat gpt playground is also then model access again the same thing you have specific models in chat gpt whereas you have various models in chat gpt playground  Then user control, the conversational flow, as I said, in ChatGPT, you cannot control what responses ChatGPT is going to give you. But in ChatGPT Playground, you can also give it context that this is how you should respond to me. Then you will see when you open the ChatGPT's Playground thing, you will see three fields, system prompt, user prompt, and assistant prompt. Now I'm going to jump to the interface. I'm going to show you. So I'm going to explain all this there.  And here we have a small screenshot just for your reference. This is where the user prompt would look like. This is the system prompt. Let me show you the interface, how it is actually there. So, if I open this chat GPT playground, you already know how to find it. platform.openai.com slash playground. Make sure you are in the chat, not in the assistant or complete window. So, this is how the interface looks like. On the left-most side, we have system.  So this is where you will tell ChatGPT, act like this. For example, I'm taking a very, very specific use case. Let's say you want someone to be a Python developer and you want it to generate ideas like that. So you can just add context here that, so I've just written a small prompt here that you're a Python programmer with 10 plus years of experience, and you are an expert at creating new software as well as debugging them.  So, this is how it will behave now. It will think, okay, I am a Python programmer. I am not ChatGPT or I am not an AMR. I am a Python programmer. Then we have the user variable. User means you. So, this is what you will ask. So, maybe we can add something like fix this code  So, I'll just add some normal Python code. So, let's say A is a variable, A equals 10. Then B is a variable, B equals 20. I want to add both of them. C equal to A plus B in print. This is total.  And here, I'll do a mistake. Okay, in usually it should be just C and packet close. I'll do a mistake, which is, or you can do another mistake, there should be a comma here. I'm not adding that comma. And I'm just gonna run it. And then see, let's see what the JAPT does. So if you see, it added a comma right here.  One more drawback in here is, it cannot format the result like you see formatted in Chargipity. Like, as you see, there are three codes. If you do the standard Chargipity thing, it will create a nice development, kind of a developer box only for code. So, let me just show you, for example.  I am not going to add any context, I am going to simply add this and I am going to show you how it will usually look like if you are using chat gpt like this kind of a nice box it will create and it will give you but in chat gpt playground everything is plain text so one trick here you can do is you can search text to markdoll okay and or there is another good website dillinger.io  dillinger which converts text to markdown so you can just copy this whole thing from here and it is only useful if you're doing huge chunks of things if it's small like this you can understand what's going on here but it there is huge huge chunks of code and it's difficult for you to understand what's going on here you can just go to dillinger.io and paste this link now see it's like such a nice textbox  and everything is formatted pretty nicely. So, this is basically called Markdown. So, these three codes you see, this kind of a layout is basically a kind of a coding so that you can create formatting in plain text and you can paste it somewhere else which can convert it into Markdown.  So now that you know how this interface is their basic interface, I'll move on to the next slides. So you already saw this is where we add the user messages. Now let's see what are presets here. So if you see on the top right, there are several presets that you can create, or you can create new preset by yourself. For example, if you come over here,  When I go on the top, you will see your presets, right? We don't have any preset, but we can create one just now. So we created this bot, which basically solves Python code, right? So you can hit control save, or you can also click that save here from here. I'm just gonna hit control save or command save on the Mac, and just name it something like this. So I'm gonna name it as Python debugger.  and I can add in the description if I want. If I don't, I can just leave it blank and you can do make it public like anyone with the link can view this or you can keep it private. So I'm going to make it public and I'm going to save this.  Now that it's public, you can see this pop up here. Now that if I refresh this thing, a new fresh window will open up. Okay, sorry, but it will not open up a fresh window because I'm just refreshing this thing. So I'll just delete this what text here from here, it will remove the preset and it's gonna then open up fresh set.  Now, if I want to load up that chat, what will I do? Go to preset, I'm going to click on Python debugger, and I'm back. So, if you are someone who needs this context to be already there, and you don't want to start from scratch every time, this is a very nice feature in ChatGPT's Playground.  So now that you know about presets, there is another good feature here is called the history. So if you go back to the interface here, after the submit button, we'll see a history button show history. Here you can see like a version history what all happened. So we started from here.  I tested some like see it works or not. Then I created this interface and I saved it. And here we are in the latest. So now that you're comfortable with the interface and you know where to find what I want to conclude this video here because I'm going to create a dedicated video with the parameters explaining each of them in detail.  So, what do I mean by parameter? Are these things on the right? This is like the crux of chat to play this playground. So, I want to create a dedicated video on this. Believe me, that will be one of the most valuable videos about playground you're gonna ever watch. So, that's why without wasting any more time, let's move on to the next video.

3.	Exploring Assistant Mode
Hi everyone, this is Animesh back again with another video. In this video we are going to cover the assistant mode which is the most recently launched mode of chat jpeg playground and it's still in beta but it has a pretty good amount of feature list and it's pretty much stable only. So let's move let's dive into it and let's see how it is better than the chat mode of playground.  So, first, let me show you how the Assistant interface looks like and then we're going to move forward with the rest of the slides. So, first, you need to open ChatGPT and Playground, the URL will be platform.openair.com slash playground. You might be inside the chat or legacy interface, the complete one. We are looking for the Assistant one for this one.  So if you see this one, this looks pretty much like the standard chat GPT. Here we have our normal chat box where we'll add our inputs. Here we have the settings of whatever we are going to do. But yeah, there are a few more settings than which are currently available in chat GPT right now.  We used to have this Code Interpreter retrieval as a separate feature. So right now, everything in Chat GPT-4 is pretty much integrated. When we ask something, it automatically pulls up whatever it needs. If it requires Code Interpreter, it will bring Code Interpreter. If it requires something else, it will use that. So first, let's set up our Assistant.  First, you have to go to this URL as I already showed you. Then you have to sign in with your OpenAI account. It can be your direct email access or you can directly log in with your Gmail ID as well. Next, you have to go to this assistant panel. So, if you go here, if you expand this here, you will see the assistant panel is there.  Here we can create various assistants right now. Here you can see we have certain like assistants already. Let's create another one for maybe the use of programming. So it can be named as Python GPT. Next in the instruction panel you will add what is the prompt that it should follow as its base. So I can simply write a simple prompt for a programming  Now that we have the name and description sorted, now we're going to choose the model. So if you see here, we have a lot of models, right? So and the naming is pretty much confusing, if you see.  we have chat gpt 4 0 1 2 5 preview what does this mean chat gpt 3.5 turbo 16k so i have a small guide for you let me just show you how like you can easily understand what all this means so we already added the name and the description of it next we're gonna add the model so if you see we have this as an example gpt 4 32k 0 7 0 1  what this means is GPT-4 means it's the chat GPT-4 model 32k means the context limit of this is 32,000 tokens 0701 means July 1st it was released so last one is basically the date middle one is the context and this is the model name so for this one I'm just gonna select GPT-4 the standard one  and here in the functions you can add various functions like you can create your own functions you can like get function list from other chat gpt assistants as well for now i'm going to keep it as blank you can enable code interpreter on this one let's enable retrieval also okay retrieval is not available in this one so let's select turbo and then we can get retrieval also  And here if you want to add some files for your reference and for the reference of the system, you can add that too. Next that we have all this ready, we're going to just test it out by clicking this button. Now you will see you have a pretty standard interface already in front of you with all the things filled out already.  So, you can ask any question to it and it's gonna behave like a Python program. So, I'm gonna give it a small bug that it has to fix. So, I added a small program here which basically prints out 10 numbers from the number that you have just entered. So, there is a mistake that I did. I should take the input as int, like I should wrap this input inside of an int, but I haven't wrapped it. So, let's see if it gives the right result or not.  Now you see, it has fixed the issue. What it did is, instead of wrapping this thing into int, it converted it into int after taking the input. So, alternatively, you can also use it as another solution. For example, I can just ask it, can you include that int conversion into the first line?  see it has fixed it. Another perk that I did is I added x plus 11 instead of x plus 10. So that too it fixed in the first run also. So if you see it's standard like how chat gpt works but it is more like a custom instruction. Right now if you have seen chat gpt settings for example I go to chat gpt  I can just ask it any question, but if I go on my account, go to customize chat GPT and add a custom instruction that this is my custom instruction. You are a Python developer. If I paste this in here, whatever new chat that I open will have this context at first. So, you can  Think of it as like an old version of ChatGPT, where you had more control over the things, but in another interface. So, based on whatever we have seen right now, you might think it's not a big deal, it's the same thing only, there is not a lot of difference. But there are key difference that is functions inside of Assistant mode in the Playground. These functions are not available in the standard ChatGPT that you are using.  But, whereas we only have that code interpreter and the custom instruction thing, we already have in the standard tools of chat GPT that we have, chat.openair.com. But in here, we have something called functions. So, to explain in detail, let's just go to the documentation first. So, documentation will be linked in the PPT itself that you'll find in the video description or in the resources section of this course.  So, let's see from the start what are tools that we have. First is Enabling Code Interpreter. This is pretty straightforward. We have something that runs code inside of ChatGPT, Python code in general, and that you can enable and disable just by a toggle. So, the main thing here is the functions.  So, in ChatGPT's assistance in the playground, you can define specific functions for specific chatbots. For example, here if you see the code of it, the assistant name, assistant is this whole thing. Inside of this, we have this instruction. You are a weather bot. Use the provided function to answer questions. Model is GPT-4 Turbo Preview. Tools are  like the first is it's basically a function now in the function we have name description parameters in the parameters we have type properties location unit meaning you can go as much detail as you can so for example compare two things if i ask you what is the weather in india right now or you will say are you crazy because india is not that specific everywhere on india  It is different, right? You can't say weather. For countries, it's climate. So, if I say, okay, fine. What is the weather of New Delhi? You might say it's raining someday. You can say it's hot. You can say it's cold. But maybe different parts of Delhi will have different things. So,  So that the user that we are creating this bot for does not make this silly mistake. We can program the session itself to ask for accurate info that this all info is what you're going to ask and this is what you're going to create as a output. So here you will see type string, the city, state example, San Francisco. So for the type, it is only taking a state as an example, not a country, not a big territory over there.  Next is get nickname. So you can get a nickname of a city an Object is basically location type string description the city state example, San Francisco see so this is another one which basically you get a nickname of the Of a city if you want to so for example, I'll soon just say what is the nickname of San Francisco? It will give a nickname  and this is what the assistant will read if you run this kind of a function. So, you don't have to get in too much in detail if you are not going to use the programming aspect of chatgpt assistant. It's a good thing to know that you can create several functions inside of chatgpt that you can call later on. This way you can create a whole library  function for your personal assistant like book a calendar invite for me book this do this book an hotel for me and tell me the weather today or what's my schedule for today like this you can ask small small things to chatgpity and code hard-coded questions and hard-coded functions inside of chatgpity so that you get the highest accurate level of quality possible after that the next key feature here is the retrieval of  This is, I would say, the most used feature out there in every customer support bot that you see. So, I personally used to think, okay, fine, I can create a personal assistant for a customer support bot, right? Then give it some context and this and that, and it will answer questions like me. But how do I do that so that every instance, the bot already knows what I want to create? I can give it a prompt, that's fine.  But the prompt has limited amount of characters that I can write. It cannot take more than 5000 characters, right? But if I upload files there, I can input way more information in way less characters or tokens, right? So I used to think how it is done. But while studying the system mode, I got to understand something called retrieval.  What this will allow you to do is, let me open the documentation first. Enabling retrieval will allow you to add files to the knowledge base of this chat GPT bot. So as you can see, you are a customer support chat bot. Use your knowledge base to best respond to customer queries. This is the instruction, nothing else. This is not the main prompt. You don't have any context with it. It does not know what company customer support bot it is. But here, you will see the type we have retrieval.  So in this way, you can upload a lot of files into the chat GPT. You see here, they're charging 0.2 GB, $0.2 per gigabyte. So just think, for $1 a day, you can upload, I think, five gigs of data into chat GPT, based on which it's going to answer your customer queries.  So how accurate would that be compared to some some chat GPT which is taking let's say a thousand character prompt. I can give it all info about my company still that won't be enough to make it as competent as a bot which is answering at this piece. So that's it on the practical side of things. Let me just quickly go over the slides and I'll cover small small things which are more theoretical in nature.  So functions we already covered basically is a group of instructions that are in the chat GPT to create more accurate responses. Next, we have three things that is important for every assistant, name, description, and parameters. And whereas, we have all the things in the documentation as well, we have linked it here.  And the code interpreter you can generate, write new code and run execute code in Python. Like it can generate code in any language, but it can run it only in Python. So keep that in mind. And for every function also we have proper documentation there. This is for code interpreter, you can click here and explore more. For retriever, I already told you that you need to upload files and based on those, the chatbot is gonna answer things. And we have documentation for that as well.  And I think that's it for this chat GPT's playground course. I hope you enjoyed and learned a lot about this other unexplored side of chat GPT.  And this playground is really, really interesting. If you just spend some time in it, I'll say you'll probably forget about chatgpd. Because number one, it's cost efficient, if your use case is not so high, like you don't use a lot of chatgpd, but you might use it once in a while. Second thing being you have a lot of experimental features. And the only con being you cannot install like plugins and all you need to create them on your own.  But if you are creating them on your own, you can publish them to the public on the standard ChatsRpti platform and make some money out of it also. So I hope you enjoyed this module about ChatsRpti's playground and you're going to explore something about it. And I would love to hear what are your opinion about ChatsRpti's playground in the comments below.  you can try it out let me know what you think and yeah just have fun with it because the name as the name suggests it's basically a playground so good luck and have a really good day bye.
Related Inner Circle Discussions
	1. (Topic - AAA) - 22nd July 2023.mp3
		Hey everyone, we'll be starting in this five minutes. We'll just wait for everyone since the link didn't work for some time.  So I just made some quick changes and it's working right now. So I'll just give the access to the chat. Yeah. Hey everyone, can you all hear me? Yeah, great. So let's just wait for four or five minutes so that we'll get everyone and then we'll start the session, okay?  Great, see you in five minutes guys, just five minutes.  Hey, everyone. Good morning. Can you guys hear me? Yeah, great. Good morning, everyone. I'm actually traveling. I'm in Bangalore right now. So yeah, I'm in a hotel room or Airbnb. So yeah, please don't mind the background and stuff like that. Good morning, everyone.  Sorry that that link didn't work for some time and then I just did some settings change and it again start to work. So, how are you all? How's the course going? And you know, how's everything? Is the course good? Are you consuming content? Hi Ayesha. Hi Jay. Hi. Tarun is saying good. Shanti Kumar is saying all going good. Good. It's going great.  Nice. Okay. So, where are you all joining from today? Just one question that is how many videos did you watch, you know, till now?  How many videos inside the course did you watch till now? Like it can be anything. Okay, someone is saying 8, someone is saying 20, 5%, 18%,  This is 5, 36% completed Freedom with AI Blueprint. Parmesh, what did you feel of the Freedom with AI Blueprint? Because that's the one for core modules. Did you feel it's good? You know, is it worth the while? Is it worth the, you know, everything?  Permish it's not available. Like do you want to talk? I mean like, you know, just type it out. Guys, this is a Slido thing. Okay.  anyone I'm not sure if everyone knows about Slido it's very simple portal where you can kind of just you know add your questions and everyone has who has same questions just can upvote it. So we'll talk about we have an agenda we'll be talking about something called AI automated agencies and how to make money out of it you know I'll explain this concept  In the meantime, if someone has any question, just feel free to, you know, get it on the Slido. So, you can just scan it here or, you know, you can even press this link which I'm going to, yeah, which I shared on the link. I shared it on the webinar chat. So, you can even consider kind of going there.  Yeah, so just if you have any questions just ask there and if you think you have any kind of something like this guys if you could see my screen I am not sure. So this is the thing guys.  This someone who is using this Lido, can you just say if it is working or not as a quick confirmation? Yes, we're able to see your screen. Okay. When can we expect bot videos? Great. Okay, so it's working. Great. So just keep asking these questions and upvoting the questions that were already there from this Lido link.  And you know we will answer all of them together by the end of this presentation. Okay. Yeah. Great everyone. Let me just open today's presentation.  Maybe I should just shift the thing, you know, the lights a little bit. This is a little better. Yeah.  I just made a bit of a small document just to make you understand everything. Yeah, great guys.  Okay, got it. So, guys, quickly before starting it, I'll just say a few updates about the course. So, Monday we're releasing AI for Developers course, just coming Monday, where you'll be finding different leveraging tactics, you know, prompt engineering techniques for developers specifically. Number one,  In the next couple of days after that launch, we'll be adding a lot of practical videos for all this prompt engineering techniques that we're seeing inside this thing, the prompt engineering module.  So the new module, the developer AI for developers module or the course will have everything practical. You will take a concept, will get it into the chart GPT, get the output, go to Python compiler or say Visual Studio, get the answer and the process will be something like this. It will be little more practical so that you'll be little much interactive, little more interactive. So that's one update.  So seven to eight days from there, maybe not next Monday, but upcoming Monday after that, you'll also have this course on triple A, right? So which is AI automated agencies. So this is going to be a huge trend. I was talking about it four weeks or five weeks before you all enrolled into this course for the people who already enrolled this course like a month ago would know that  this is something that's going to be huge and you know we discussed about it okay so now so how many of you heard this term a a a you know it's not a low virgin okay so yes is my voice breaking or it's good okay my voice is good night okay great so now  Answer this question. How many of you just heard AAA for the first time? Of course, you might be hearing it in my own videos in the welcome series, but then that's that's about it, right? You never heard it. Great. So guys, for the people who want to make an additional income through some side hustle,  this is an intro video for all those and eventually we will make a whole course out of it with in-depth like an explanation. But this is just to introduce the concept AAA. So, AAA stands for AI Automation Agencies. So, basically if you see  in the businesses or enter enterprises or startups. There are many things that are not automated as of now. It can be. As simple as linking their email providers with the CRM or you know, automating things in the CRM or creating a support chat bot or stuff like that. So there are hundreds of possibilities that a business owner could use to enhance  their productivity inside the business by automating few things or by using few tools, right? If you see there is this thing called Zapier. So Zapier is a place where you can connect two to three things and automate things. So Zapier is like for automation. So the goal here is to automate the current workflow by using few few tools. So that is automation.  and using AI for this automation is AI automation as simple as that. Now you see the Zapier is integrating AI into AI to every feature of it. So now you're using AI so that your automation will be a little faster. Okay. So now what is okay, you understood AA. What is AAA right now?  an agency do AI automation as a service is AI automation agency as simple as that if you are an agency with a team of couple of people or maybe all by yourself and building bots to automate customer service support for you know companies you are essentially a agency owner you own a a a okay, so now  I think that's AAA for the people who... Is it clear? Guys? Have you understood what is AAA primarily? Yes. Yeah.  Great. Yeah, nice guys. Thanks for just being a little more active so that it encourages me to shift my focus or explain in a certain way if you didn't understand. Okay, great now. So now guys what's happening here is I'm not sure if you know this recently a company in India called Dukan. So Dukan if you see the valuation of Dukan, I'll just quickly go. Of this company is almost  say half a billion dollars if I'm not wrong. So it's a half a billion dollar company Dukan firing customer support. So what they did is, I'll just even go to the tweet of the particular employee of this guy.  See this guy who is Sumit Shah, the founder of Dukan, okay, took a decision to lay off 90% of the support staff because of this AI chatbot. Right? And you know what happened? Time for the first response went from 1 minute 44 seconds to instant.  Dissolution time went from 2 hours 13 minutes to resolve some problem, went from that to 3 minutes. Customer support cost reduced by 85%. And what it does is,  So, given a state of economy, startups are prioritizing profitability over striving. They just want, see 10 years from 2010 to 2021 or 2022, startups used to say growth at all cost. Right now, every startup or unicorn wants  profitability at all costs because of the economic crisis that's why they are laying off people they're taking bigger decisions to you know kind of be profitable because right now the valuation game is not working anymore like you're not getting those those fancy valuations if you are not being profitable the the reason here is if you see the government bonds from in USA who rules this financial markets essentially in the world  The interest rates in USA used to be 2% a year back or maybe a year and a half back. Right now it's around 6%. So the interest you need to pay to the bank when you take some loan on an average is right now approximately 6%. And in India it's around 7 or 8% if I'm not wrong and it's the same from so long.  like you know we might increased 0.5 to 1% but USA almost tripled it. You might be thinking Avinash why in the world you're going so technical and economic going and teaching us economics but I have a point here. So now the thing is what is the link between AA and USA increasing their interest rates from 2% to 6%  Very simple. So, when interest rates gets increased, the bond rates, the money from the government bonds you get also increases. Right? So, when an average human used to get only 1, 2, 3 percent a year and a half back from the bank or government bonds, if you invest the money in government bonds. Now they're getting 6 to 7 or even 8 percent in some government bonds in USA.  So now what happens is expectation of return from companies when they invest something is huge, even a company or something, right? Because government bonds are obviously much more safer bet for people for the VCs than investing on a startup, right? So now when VCs are not actively  looking at investing this big big companies at a cheaper price they don't want to take risk even if it is 8 to 10 percent return on something they just want to invest there instead of 10x return in 2-3 years that too one company will get out of 10. So, it's essentially doubling the money every you know a decade is what the VCs do in my opinion. So, when you could double in decade in a similar way using government boards  but you know they would obviously invest in government boards than the companies right so and not everyone choose it few investors will obviously go into the startup suit only but the pressure of you know making proper you know  Okay, let me explain this way. So, obviously investors, not all investors go invest in companies or just government bonds. Everyone will have a different route. So, because government bonds are very high, because the pressure of making their return on investing the company is so high, the valuation of the company increases when they are profitable, not when they are growing super fast but not making any profit.  They should grow fast as well as make profit so that their valuation increases. The return of the money the VC who invested in this company grows little faster than the government bonds. So this guy is secure. So this is the single reason that every company is going to profitability route from the last six months to one year and cutting down employees, cutting down unnecessary marketing spend and cutting down everything they can to cut down their costs.  when they want to cut down the cost. This is the position where you could go to companies and pitch. Hey boss, we know that you are trying to cut down your cost. How about me creating some automation AI based automation in your company so that you will save costs you invest $1500 on me by building for building you some automation or AI bought or something in your company, which you need to choose and pitch off. Of course, you can't say something.  Just invest $15,000 one time for me, maybe you will save $10,000, $20,000 end of the day, like end of the year or end of the quarter. Right?  So now essentially business owners need this. So this is in the high demand, but the people who are doing this the developers who know how to leverage AI tools, the developers who know what is prompt engineering, the developers who can handle this no codes as tools are way less. So the demand is more but the supply is way less than needed. So now what's happening?  Very simple like it's very easy to close clients. You are in a blue ocean not the red ocean or a dead red ocean, right? So this is why a is going to be here and where you're going to make like say $20,000 or $10,000 if not in the worst case couple of thousand dollars a month. It's that easy to make money if you know what you're doing here. And if I were to choose my whole career again,  a is something I would do right now, right is a service that you sell to other money-making businesses or companies answered. Is everything clear guys? If you have any doubts related to this topic a could you just ask me here in the chat in the next couple of minutes.  In Germany also interest rates increase from 1% to 5%. It's a 5x increase guys. So when interest rates, when you take a loan, when the interest rate increases, the interest you're getting on the government bonds or the interest you're getting from the banks also increases. So when that increases, an average VC has a better option right now by investing in a company or a bank bonds or a company.  So why would someone choose to invest in a company when they have a better profitability here? So obviously, they'll make more returns, but it's a safer bet. So it's like a little more risky. Investing in companies right now is more risky, right? So for that reason, VCs are measuring companies to make more profit than just growing at all costs kind of a thing. Thank you.  Okay guys everyone understood kindly just type in yes so that I just move to the next topic like that for the next 10 minutes. Everyone who understood just type yes if not just type in your question. Maybe you could do it in Slido right now. Great. Thanks guys. So now.  So just let's read this thread and then go to the next topic. So given the state of economy startups are prioritizing profitability over striking striving to become unicorns and everything. They're not they don't want the valuation of 1 billion dollars. They just want maybe 10 million profit per year than having a billion dollar status. Yeah. So  Customer support has been a struggle for us since long and fixing it felt like an opportunity to me. The struggle was real. They were they were many of it as shown random by why would someone with taken product expertise work as a support agent, right? So essentially Dukan is something like if you don't know what is Dukan Dukan is something  Yeah, Dukhan is simply a e-commerce platform, like you know, a website building platform for the e-commerce owners. Just like Shopify, okay, but Indianized version of it. And it can do a little bit flexible things for Indian e-commerce owners.  So the problem with these guys is they need someone who would know the technicalities of doing things like coding and all as their support agents because the product they're doing is a website builder for e-commerce owners. They need like, you know, a tech guy to do it and people who are into tech hates this job because of obvious reasons like they don't want to be support agents. They want to develop things, be developers,  decision makers and stuff like that. So that's the reason they started their own AI assistant which could answer customer queries instantly precisely anywhere. AI sounds cool but wait my understanding AI is equivalent to understanding of ACID which is properties of database all I knew was a full form right for the people who don't know ACID  ACID is like the way you store data or something which follows these properties of atomicity, consistency, isolation and durability. That's what I know as a non-technical guy and the full form is the same. It's not actually connected full form, it's like different words. Yeah.  So now so instead of reading I'll just explain this whole thing for you guys. So very simple what he did is just created a AI chatbot took a month and maybe $5,000 to develop and now it's answering every single question that customer is asking. As simple as that when customer is not able to understand the answer given by robot when he says do you need more help and when they when he clicks on the yes or she clicks on the yes  then the human comes in at the later end if I couldn't resolve the problem and how they are doing it is very simple like every chart  or every question they've been getting in in a phone call or a chart or an email was documented properly documented from their starting of the time. So now they know the question and they know the answer. So they've built a database in a very good way where they have question they have answer they have question question answer question answer and they have thousands of questions as a library. So they now they have this library they built they gave this library of data  to API of chat GPT or open AI as simple as that they connected their Python program using Latch chain and all these logics with the back-end API of chat GPT, right and then in middle they have this database. So when in the Python, obviously, they'll have the chatbot code and stuff like that. Maybe for chatbot also they might be using  another a another third-party service provider instead of doing it from scratch. So now in the chatbot imagine someone comes into the website and ask some questions. So now the chatbot give a call and search in the database. So the database maybe will be converted into an API also. So now this chatbot API will give a call to API of this document with all the questions and answers.  So it will figure out the pattern sometimes and after thousands of question and answer sessions chatbot even if there is no specific question, it can create patterns and understand the questions of this human who is asking the customers of Dukan a better way and take those answers and give it to the customers as simple as that and why you need charge GPT API is that to understand NLP things like natural language processing.  and to connect the dots and to answer things in a better way. If this customer asks something beyond this bot, you know this documented content as simple as that. So now building whole this whole thing. The only difficult part is to get this document of questions and answers nothing else. Okay, and now they build it and now they're like, you know replaced 85  percent of the support team and imagine 50,000 is the average salary and they have 100 they just they just made up extra profit of 50,000 into 100 support staff is how much maybe 5 crores per month if I'm not wrong or 50 lakhs 50,000 5 lakhs and 50 lakhs 50 lakhs per month  And per year, it's approximately 5 crores to 6 crores. So just by building a board that costed them $5,000, otherwise 3 to 4 lakh rupees, they saved 60 crores. Can you comprehend this?  Can you just understand the huge sum of profitability that these companies could make by just building a mail chatbot that would cost them four lakhs and if the company's big enough, they can save crores millions of dollars. Right? So this is it guys like, you know, you could develop actually this in $1,500 $2,000 to an average company and can actually give it to them. So  This is what a is and this is why people need this service very badly right now in the market of in the market because of the market condition and the recession and this is also a case study, which I'm showing you, right? Okay. So now let's go a bit further. Let me open the document so that I'll explain a little bit better.  Yeah, guys, this document is a little unorganized, but still I'll give you this document inside the video link when we upload this in the wagon or maybe wait, I'll just share this with you all now only anyone with the link can be viewing it. So for anyone who is looking for the link of this particular document, you can just have a look.  And right now, please don't open it. Kindly don't open it. After explanation, I'll just give the link again and you can open it. Guys, people who open, kindly close. Anonymous, Alligator, Anonymous, Beaver, Anonymous. Please close it if possible. Okay, anyways. So there are, you might be thinking, Avinash, it's very tough to code the chatbot. You need to do the UI, UX, you need to do this, that, all that.  Actually not there isn't you have a variety of tools that you could explore if you are not a coder. Even if you are super and technical guy non-technical guy, you can still go use this tools called WordPress Zapier pably stack bubble.io and Autobot builder by Gup shop. So these are the few tools in the market right now or you can even explore bought bought  a bot 9.ai so these are like few tools that you can use you inside your ai automation agency guys can you just give me a minute i just forgot my specs and it's a little painful for my eyes to concentrate just give me a minute  Yeah, guys, I'm back. I'm sorry. A couple of minutes. Yeah. So now, we have tools called WordPress and all this. You can just explore them. The goal here is not to give you walkthroughs or something like that, because if I introduce this topic just in one video, it can be overwhelming, right? So that's the reason I'm just taking this live session to introduce this concept  for the course that I'm going to release maybe it's 7 to 10 days. Okay, so I'll not be explaining this tools, but you can just note it down and start exploring it already before I launch the course. Okay. So now when you're building a tool or a chatbot or anything related to AI automation, you have two options either do the hard coding if you are a coder if you know Python very well, and if you're all if you're also familiar with this thing called lack chain.  Okay, it's Lang chain. So, Lang chain is a doc is a basically a coding language you could say to power your LLM applications.  LLM applications are nothing but, as you already know, LLMs are large language models. Large language models are nothing but AI software or tools that use large amount of data to be trained using some, you know, software or algorithm to be trained.  So, imagine you have any LLM and you want to code something inside the LLM you can use lang chain or you can use python. So, I will not be teaching lag chain it's not in this course but if you want to you can do this. In this course I'll be only covering these tools when I'm going to launch. I'll just give you a plain idea on how to do it in the python and lag chain.  At least for now, maybe in the future. I might do it. But for now, it's a huge thing even for the hard coders as little you know, difficult to understand stuff very quickly since you're not paying for this tools. The companies are paying you're just building the board using this no code SAS tools or low code SAS tools and giving this as a service to the companies just like Salesforce CRM, right? You're not building an entire CRM from scratch.  You are using something like HubSpot, Salesforce, GoHighLevel as a software and building what customer or the business needs inside this already developed platforms like Salesforce. And now you're a Salesforce developer. There is like entire economy where maybe a hundred billion dollars or fifty billion dollars. The entire economy runs because of the Salesforce developers, right? So something like that, you know, like that you are doing with these tools right now.  Like for building CRM people are using Salesforce for building chatbot. You're going to be using this tools like from WordPress to bot 9.ai. So these are the things great. So now you're using this tool understanding customer needs and filling the gap like, you know in the tool you're solving the problem and this tool be will be used to automate few things inside the agency. So now you might be asking okay Avinash great, but what are the services I could give to the people?  so that they will actually save money very simple internal or external chatbots. Okay with custom knowledge chatbots custom knowledge here is nothing but in the case of the gun. The custom knowledge here is just a simple made document with all the frequently asked questions with answers. So that's an external chatbot for a company to automate customer service.  Guys don't go and read everything and then listen to me. You'll not understand just listen to me. Okay, and then leave nurturing. So this is also an external chatbot where imagine in the website someone comes imagine. It's a web development company and they have a chatbot integrated just like if you see freedom with AI. We have sorry.  Now, we have a chatbot right here. So, like that everyone will have a chatbot integrated here and you can just type in your name, email and ask your question. So, this is already there. Yeah. So, now what I can do is,  Imagine I get some lead into the company or ask, hey, I need a web development agency. I need a website.  So to nurture the lead I might be asking few questions. Hey, what's your budget? Where are you from? What is your company website and given the time frame how quickly you want to start taking this service and you know, and many things like this and then at the end you'll also show. Okay. These are a few case studies before you get on a call tomorrow because through this calendar link, it would be great if you could see this video and understand our company a bit better. So now when they come into the call,  They know that they're committed and you know, they gave all the answers and we know he's a very seriously and stuff like that. So this is lead nurturing and and lead capture. So for the people in the marketing would understand this terms little bit better. But if you are someone who is not understanding lead capturing lead nurturing, that's fine. It's the way business owners book a call with leads by nurturing them and then capture their email ID and phone number and then book a call in the calendar.  So there's the whole lead nurturing and lead catching thing. Now, personal one-on-one coaching for coaches. So now what did I mean by this? Imagine, you know, you saw every single interview of Elon Musk, right? You liked Elon Musk and you might be thinking it's a little  time-consuming to watch every single video on the internet on the Elon Musk or by Elon Musk for so many people. So what you can do is you can get the transcription of every single interview of Elon Musk in a text format using AI tools or some other tools. So now you have a documented file of so much of data as a text format.  So this is your custom knowledge. This is Elon Musk talking on the internet frequently asked questions question asked by Elon Musk like Elon Musk interviewer and answer by Elon Musk. You would get like thousand questions and answers which was answered by Elon Musk. Now you built a bot with the custom knowledge of this knowledge of this Elon Musk knowledge.  And now suddenly I could just ask any questions to Elon Musk directly. So the API of chat GPT or open AI will be able to comprehend things in a very sophisticated way with the knowledge with the mere thousand frequently asked questions. They have because they already have so much knowledge in their back end. And now they're just adding the knowledge they have  in this custom knowledge. They're just get linking things in the custom knowledge with the knowledge. They already have and answering people's questions. You can just go and say hey Elon Musk. This is my idea. Is it good? I'm Elon Musk. This chatbot will mimic the style of Elon Musk and answer as if Elon Musk is answering you. Got it. So now it's literally like you are having Elon Musk as a personal coach.  Right? So chatbots are figuring out the patterns of your question the custom knowledge it have and all the trained knowledge. It already has while the training. Got it. Is it here guys? Are you understanding how this custom knowledge and chatbot works? Yeah.  If you have any question, please feel free to do it in the Slido. I will once again share the link of Slido. Yeah, so this is the link of Slido guys. Yeah, great. Yeah. So these are the services you can also build such a PT plugins.  You can you can actually build ChatGPT plugins yourself or you can build ChatGPT plugins for the clients and you can have AI-enhanced Zapier flows or paply flows, work emails, messages, whatsapp things and all and content generation system from the DB like  You know, you have a database of the content and you know, it can be super specific kind of a content that ChatGPT has no idea right now. You can actually build a huge knowledge which way ChatGPT doesn't have say imagine ChatGPT is not able to comprehend certain style of philosophy because it's not being trained vigorously on that particular thing. So you can actually build a database of all that particular  if everything about the particular topic give this as the custom knowledge for the chatbot and the chatbot will create the patterns and answer them and you can also with all the knowledge you are actually having right now from the consumption of this courses and from the live classes. You can actually be a consultant for the businesses. You don't do anything, but you'll just kind of people you'll explain the businesses answer all these questions. That's it. So these are the few services guys that you can actually offer people  And of course yeah here I forget about customer support of course you can you know replace the customer support just like Ducan did. And what AI can do this for this business is it can increase the productivity it will replace the entire roles like it can be customer service like for few companies like they don't even need one exact customer support even  at a like a I can solve every problem like there are businesses where people just ask very basic questions and this basic questions can be answered by this basic chat bot. They don't need even humans. It can replace the entire rules there by saving a lot of money improve access to the data. Like, you know, whenever you have a chat bot, everything is automated. Now you have when you used to have 10 member team. Now, you only have one member team.  This guy will also or lady will not be working entire day just by answering questions because he is doing it in the front and he just needs to observe things he or she know what will he or she do is. Just understand customers problems in a deeper end and report it to the higher authority and the higher authority will just figure out answer for this.  So suddenly for it will increase the access of customer data access to the customer problems in a better way. If you could use the stuff and it will also help owners to make better decisions and we will increase the profits at the end. And these are the few chart GPT plug-in ideas guys. So basically before entering into this when you are doing this chatbot building or things you have two options.  You have idea of building a chatbot. You are not associated with anyone spend $150 $200 use this no code SAS tool or learn Python plus latching and build your chatbot yourself and host it in the website and and whatnot. So that's the option number one you doing it for yourself thinking that your idea will make money out of it by just sitting on the sitting on it for a weekend or two. So that's number one second option is you are building chatbots  for others for other businesses and making money out of it. So the second thing is AAA and the first thing is it's just yourself like you know you're building for your own ideas. So it's not AAA. You're not an agency. You're just a company or you're just an individual who is building business to  by building chatbots that's all by building AI chatbots essentially. So now if you choose to be the second one, I gave you a few knowledge some knowledge, but if you choose to be the first one like who wants to build AI bots themselves or for themselves, that's where you can actually build chat GPT plugins right now chat GPT plugins are just like App Store plugins.  I'll just even give you chart GPT. I'll show you the chart GPT plugins. This is chart GPT plug-in store. It has a lot a lot of like approximately 700 to 800 tools were already into this plug-in store.  Everyone has different things, you know, one has a chat bot to make invoices. You just don't need to design it from the scratch give the information choose the template and you'll get the invoice and if you like there are hundreds and hundreds of apps with different use cases. like  so many guys access you know there is a chat bot where you can give so much of knowledge and chat with that knowledge and stuff like that you know there is a plugin called chat pdf or something so basically this is a like mixer box where you can you can  summarize the entire book or entire document with hundreds of pages and after summarization, you can even ask custom questions related to that topic. So this chatbot will get the knowledge from the custom knowledge you uploaded as a PDF file and it will keep answering. Essentially, it's like you having a little customer support yourself. Imagine you wanted to build a website.  on some platform. They have a great documentation, but you don't want to read the entire documentation. You just want a summary of it or maybe ask specific questions from the documentation module. You can simply copy paste the entire documentation of that particular software. Keep it as a PDF and upload that PDF to this particular plugin. There are like so many plugins. Okay. Like this.  and ask specific questions. The documentation will be so in-depth and so vigorous, it's little difficult for you to learn. So, make it as a PDF, insert that PDF into a tool like this and ask your questions to this tool. So, instead of relying on the support service of that particular tool, you are relying on the documentation they provided and making things easier.  If you could build these tools to the public, which would cost you nothing and just apply to be on the plugin store of ChatGPT, this is a very huge business coming in the coming months. The reason is the first few App Store apps that were built in maybe last decade,  are huge right now you see angry birds temple run not just games even there are very specific use case apps they built they just made billions and billions of dollars from just being on a app store a small app they made billions of dollars and some are at a billions of dollars in valuation  So just like that you can actually build charge a pretty plugins for career development crypto trade assistant prompts help Gmail assistant. So Gmail assistants are something like this. So you will build a bot where customer will give access to his email and will summarize the entire days worth email content in maybe five lines. It will say hey,  You got 18 promotional emails. I'm sure it's not that helpful and you got this particular email from this particular customer particular company seems to be little interesting and it will summarize the thing in one line and like that and you got an email from your mom or your dad or your kid saying this or your friend and said this.  So you will not go to Gmail and just read the entire 30 emails. You got that you'll use this email assistant inside your charging T which have access to your Gmail and you'll just write one single line. Hey, can you summarize my cheat, you know email for today? I will just go read all the emails and summarize everything in maybe four or five lines. And if you want to have any elaboration, you can cross question again. Hey, what are the 16 promotional emails? Can you just see me top five of those?  It will just say 5 promotional emails content again summarized in a perfect way that you would understand. So that's an email assistant. It's email assistant is not writing an email for you, but just summarizing entire days, months, weeks email and you can simply do this a random idea. I'm like no one did it. It's my idea. I'm just giving it to you for free so that you can use these ideas.  and build the chatbots and make some money and be my success story as simple as that. Like I'm just going to give you 22 ideas like this. Okay, and Facebook ads assistant little difficult, but if you could build a chatbot to write Facebook ad copies video sales letters and stuff like that. Business owners or digital marketing agency owners  will use your platform than writing in turn the chat GPT. So how to do that is very simple. You have a very huge mega prompt you do prompt engineering and learn how to get the best result when someone asks to write the absolute for the product, right? So now your chatbot will ask maybe six or seven questions. Okay.  Say hey, what's your product what it does blah blah blah blah like it will ask you eight or nine questions a business owner will answer this eight questions using this eight questions as an input. It will insert this input into our mega prompt, you know prompt format mega prompt. I hope you remember right? So inside this mega prompt you will insert this, you know,  Push the answers you're getting and you're just giving a call to charge a PT API and that API is giving you back answers and that a will be shown to our customer as simple as that. No custom knowledge. Nothing. You're just writing one mega prompt and you might be asking can't customer just go to charge if we can do it. No, the reason is very simple and average human is not a prompt engineer who could write a hundred line  prom or 50 line prom. It's very difficult for them. They just go. Hey, this is my product. This is what I do for five lines and they were expecting best ad scripts. It's not going to work like that. You should have a perfect prompt format to give the best ad script from your experience. And then you know that chart or that prompt will be your motor like that. You can just  Build all this charge a bit of plugins. You can build grammar plugin. You can be weather integration. You can also have a sports and fantasy data plugin. Imagine, you know. Who are into sports betting or something like that, you know, or interested in sports? What they do is basically they want to understand the data. How many runs did Virat Kohli like scored in IPL of 2013?  You could get this into Google, but there might be specific things that Google might not get it. Well, you know, how many dot balls did Srisanth took in the IPL of 2012? This is difficult, right?  So if you could get all the custom knowledge from the sports websites very specific thing and get a custom knowledge and then build a bot people who are into sports might use it. So these are like 20 different ideas guys, so you can just explore them and if you need any help in actually understanding this would we would be happy to help and maybe in the next class I can go little in-depth on each one of this in the next week session.  So that you know by that time you'll have an idea the course also will be released and you'll be also using these tools. You'll have a perfect idea before you actually finalizing your idea and stuff like that. So these are all good ideas that you could easily build and make money or build a big SAP and a company out of it. Who knows cool guys. Is it fine? Yeah, so someone is asking explain movie review plug-in.  Okay. Sure. I just explained that one just for you. Yeah. Yeah. So now the movie review plugin is very simple. Okay. So imagine if I want to watch a movie now Oppenheimer released Bobby released and stuff like that. Most people would generally go to the movie because of the hype, but they would be people like me only if I know that the movie is really good and worth my three hours of time.  I would watch it. So for someone like me, I spend 10 or 15 minutes for actually reading couple of reviews before actually going to a movie, right? And most of the times five out of one like five times out of say say four out of five times. I don't go to the movie after reading reviews. I just think okay. It's a bad movie because of the reviews and I'll not go to the movie and I need to watch like six to seven reviews because  Most of them are paid blah blah blah. So what if you could build a tool where you could give a review of reviews, right? Just like imagine you have five you you have like a different review websites in Telugu. You can summarize the reviews and when someone asks, what is a review of Oppenheimer you have a text summarize summary of all this reviews already and you are just summarizing this all the reviews and saying hey, this movie is okay.  From 8 sources, we think these are the pros, these are the cons and this is the average rating 8 people gave. So, if you could summarize this on a daily basis, imagine the movie gets released on 24th of July. People who would like to watch only afternoon movies would not watch it on the first day. They would either watch it by the night or the next day, which is Saturday or Sunday.  So maybe by the end of Friday night, if you could get the summary of entire thing give it to the custom knowledge board and you can even do simple automations where you can crawl reviews from the fixed website without you interpreting in like involving in it. So it will crawl the data or the review of this a different review websites and build a custom chart what itself using some automations.  And this eight reviews will be summarized whenever they ask and this will be on the chart GPT plug-in itself. So when someone asks a question your chart GPT plug-in will be like say started and your plug-in will give a summary of all this 8 or 10 or 20 reviews. Don't you think it's a cool idea for people like me who only watch reviews go to that only after watching reviews just type in. Yes, if you think it's a good idea, would you use it?  Yeah, so guys I have hundreds of ideas.  I just took because because I can't implement all those ideas. I just took one or two of them that I think that's the best fit for me and implementing myself and I'm about to give all the ideas I have related to chart GPT chart boards, maybe 40 of them 50 of them to you eventually. So these are like 22 ideas right now. You could just explore them and we can talk about it later. So let's quickly answer a few questions in this freedom with AI thing.  Like okay guys Slido a few people recommended me to have an Excel sheet and then maintain the questions and answers and stuff like that. I thought it will be a monotonous task for my support team. So that's the reason I just got this Lido so that this Lido link every week. I'll be giving you side Slido links internally throughout the week.  no matter what question you get you can just enter it and other people will just upvote it if they think this is something they need to answer. Okay. There are 17 questions. I'll quickly answer all of them.  When can I expect about videos two weeks maximum? Can we get the recording of this session? Of course, you will get in the back end which is in a circle calls module. Can you guide non-technical background students to understand from the engineering with ease? I think if you could complete the prompt engineering module, that's the best resource in the world to get it. But I'll be adding practical videos also. Will this automation helpful for the QA testers?  Of course, just go Google it you'll get different ideas and then just you know, complete the prompt engineering and if you have any questions while like, you know, you are connecting dots from the knowledge. You got you got from this course plus from the knowledge you got from the Google just ask us and we will connect the dot. Okay, and also let's go to this link. Please. This is the Slido thing, you know, if you have if you need to upvote some questions that were already there, please don't ask the same questions just upvote.  Okay, so on Monday or maximum by Tuesday, mostly I'll try 99% of the course will be released on Monday, which is AI for Developers. That will also help QA testing as a category. Everyone who attended this session should watch that video the moment it gets released. That's actually a very good video series we're building for our course. Okay, do we have a video using a few of the prompts that you have shared inside?  Freedom with AI blueprint when you start the prompt engineering module. That's the last video, you know, that's the last video where you'll find actual prompts that I or we used for each technique, right? That's the last video. You'll find it's a practical video. We'll be uploading more videos for now. If you need you can just watch that we're unable to use Dora dot AI. Can we have any alternative? Yes for the people who can't use Dora dot AI.  Framer dot AI is something that you need to explore free Adora dot AI is in the wait list. It's one of the best but still it's not the best milk. It's like it's one of the best but it's not available in the market right now, but Prima dot AI can actually create entire website in this minute. Freedom with AI is the course.  for AI beginners like I'm just trying to build some basic thing with with AI let's see how it goes hmm like I never like you know never intended to use it guys so just don't bash me off if this website is bad it's just like I just wanted to try it out I'm just not even spending a minute while writing this entire prompt  It's generating a page. Okay. It's building us a desktop version a tablet version and a mobile version. And you can even  Your website is done. You're like, you know, course timeline everything just don't assume the basic version is done. You can actually do a little more prompting and you know, use this layout text and more text choose this fonts. You do all the customization and you can even even publish it just like in a minute. Yeah.  And so, this is our website. It already has the domain also. You can just go to this domain. Just give me a minute. I'll just see. Yeah. Yeah, this is our website, guys. It's live. Like, I did nothing. Unleash your AI potential, blah, blah, blah. Made with Framer. Like, you can literally, if you want, you can just give this copy.  paste it and get it. I know this content is very basic, but still just imagine how much time it would take for an average developer to do at least like this. Maybe 20 30 minutes or even more like two hours three hours, right? So this did in a minute or even less. And the more better prompt I would give it would be better and I could do unlimited of changes to this. Hope this answered for the people for the people who  want to have an alternative for dora.ai, primo.ai is the answer for you. Okay, I think.  Okay, there are AI tools. In fact, in fact using charge equity itself. You could do built an entire app in the Play Store or App Store, but that's not easy. I would not recommend you to try it immediately after this course, right? Just try and complete this course content. We already have and complete more videos. Okay that we are going to release and attend to this live sessions.  and then we'll discuss about everything right like i know we'll go in depth a little more further in each subsequent uh you know what should i say each subsequent uh video session in a circle call okay now please tell us how to find the freelancing jobs to build chatbots and also how to get leads for  building bots for the businesses guys for anyone who is asking way to make money using freelancing jobs and but don't have accounts on Upwork and freelancer or Fiverr. You're doing something wrong. The first step to build your freelancing career is to create your profile on the top 10 freelancing websites. It might take a whole day or five hours or four hours just to create profiles first.  That's all just create the profiles and eventually you will figure out the way yourself. You don't even need me or anyone just build it and you will have people who wants few jobs to be done. You can just apply for the jobs and get selected or people will see your profile and apply for you to work for the jobs to both ends, but initially you will not get any jobs. You should apply for the jobs and you should kind of do it.  that's all that's the first step and the most important step just do it for a month by trying and all different websites freelancing websites different jobs you are applying then if it's not working you know there is a good resource that i think it's in on youtube there is this guy  Yeah, there is this guy called freelance MVP. 95% of Upwork freelancers get their job proposals instantly. So this guy is like super legit guy for freelance MVP. If you want to learn how to actually get the jobs in Upwork, how to get freelancing gigs, how to apply for this, how to create proposals,  How to solve everything related to Upwork freelancing. This guy has an answer for you. Just go if you want like learn the skill from here and learn operation from there and the combination will make you more money as simple as that. But then guys you without doing so much of stuff can actually get this job fixed in Upwork because right now the demand for building AI bots is huge, but the supply is way less than the demand. So  Yeah. That's all. I'll just go answer a couple of questions. Last couple of questions guys. Just checking. Good. Last week you had described it. Yes. Say one best voice changer tool with converge text to voice. Well said labs is something we use internally. But it's little costly, but this is the best. For other AI tools if you want,  Yeah, you can use you can go to AI tools Arsenal and you will get more options there. Okay. Will plugins work for GPT-3? Yes. And by the way guys how to get open a eyes API. Okay, good question. Yeah. Let me just log in guys.  Yeah, so now this is your profile. Okay, essentially, so you will have this station in your profile. If you go open a and create your profile, you will have this where you will say view API case. So these are my API keys that we use to create multiple things like to create the wasco board to create different different things. You just hit on create new key and you'll just give the name and you'll get the create hit on the create new key.  I'm not creating one just you'll get an API like a key basically a 40 digit key or 30 digit key copy and then whenever you you can just paste it in your chatbot builder or your Python and do to it that will act as a call as simple as that. So that's that's where you can find the API for someone who asked this question. Yeah. Hi Avinash will you be able to provide the opportunity work  opportunity to work with you on AIA for the okay I'm sorry I don't know why this is coming as anonymous or maybe you're not entering your name guys next time when you're asking questions enter your name it would be helpful yes for the people who  actually want to work with me and has a very good knowledge on python and maybe willing to learn lag chain and have basic understanding of ai ml and all hit me up uh on the instagram okay hit me up on the instagram see me that you are a student or you are inside the ai membership you are someone who took ai membership in the first line itself  and then ask me directly. I'm not I'm not sure that I'll answer all of your questions, but maybe if it is a good fit, I'll see if I could answer it a bit like I'll see okay. Will this covers AI ML ML and NLP basics NLP basics for sure and AI basics. I think I covered but not technical AI or ML. I will be covering about AI and ML in a basic way.  right, in a non-technical way to understand what is AI and ML in depth. But we will not be talking about AI and ML in depth, so in depth that it is like a separate AI and ML course. But I have someone called Madhu, okay, he is my very good friend. We live in the same apartment. We live in a 3BHK apartment. Me, my brother Nitin and Madhu will be in this apartment, okay.  So, this Madhu is a machine learning engineer at a very big corporate company. At a very young age, he wrote so many research papers and maybe four with a citation score which is higher than someone in his age. He is a very talented prodigy.  I have in my own social circle and friend circle right. So, now I am actually collaborating with Madhu to create AI for developers course. You will get this you know by very soon Sunday, Monday. What we are doing with Madhu is we are creating a course for AI developers and he will also be attending this inner circle calls with me from next week once the course get released you watch something.  So he is a very in-depth machine learning guy. He understands machine learning so in-depth that an average someone in his 20s wouldn't. So I'll be like you could ask if you have any in-depth questions related to AIML to him. So he'll be one of your point of contact in his inner circuit course. Okay.  Are the plugins available only for chart GPT for paid subscriptions? No, you can create a open AI account and you can get it for free and only pay as you use it like AWS. It's good option. If you could show how to use other AI tools than GPT. We it's on our to-do list.  give us some time. The first priority is AI for developers. Next priority is practical videos. And the next priority practical videos are being edited. It's done. AI for charge repeat, AI for developers are being recorded and being edited parallelly. And then this AAA course is the next priority. So once these three things are done, I'll just improve the course like anything. 14 days like already the course is good. I'm getting great feedback.  For some people or maybe I'm not sure they might feel like little hiccups while watching this course for the technical. It might be a little boring on work. I'll do my best to increase the quality of the course by introducing as many practical videos as possible. So don't worry. I'm a tech developer and learning Python with five dots deep learning is a good idea or prompt engineering is good learn both like  Python will be not available five years down the line. Maybe I'm not sure according to the founder of stable diffusion, but still. For the next five years, Python is everything because every AI tool uses Python as their core language. So learning Python and prompt engineering parallel is a good idea. I have an interesting question. Great. Can we have an AI avatar of ourselves and indicate with the zoom calls or Webex calls? Rahul, yes.  Yeah, you can have it. There is a AI tool. I'm not sure you don't even need an AI avatar. It's like it is really replicating yourself and attending zoom calls for you and taking anti-summary and you can just read the summary and prepare accordingly. So there is a tool that I would say you tomorrow or day after right? I wrote it somewhere. I just need to check. I just searched it last week. So it will just attend like a  is zoom meeting with the real face of yours with actual you you will do all the expressions according to the conversations and all and but you will not be able to talk. Okay, if it is zoom meeting that you just need to attend or talk. This is something you could use and the entire meeting summary will be there and you can even ask questions inside the meeting summary. Hey, what did my CEO talk? What did this guy talk and it will give you so I saw some tool like that last week. I'll give you this is going to be great.  Yeah, I guess I'll be here for five more minutes guys. Hi Avinash, will you able to provide the opportunity work? Okay, got it. Okay, Srikanth, I'll read your question. Just give me a minute. Okay, I think we can build a small customer support API. Now here, ChatGPT plugin help us to build more chatbots and replace, he is a bit confused. Can you throw a little, okay.  I think we can build a small customer support API with UI Python API with Java DB. So now how is the chart GPT plugin help us more will help us more to build chat bot and replace CS bit confused. Okay, so we can to answer your question. It's very simple.  So you can what you will be doing is. Okay, you will have a custom knowledge. Okay, which is a document and this document will be given to API of OpenAI. You just create an API for your custom chart GPT like you will. API of the document will be on your friend end.  and the API of ChatGPT or open a will be in the back end. So just linking both and linking this both to your friend and chat bot. Okay, three aps stitched together. Maybe you can use other aps for different purposes, but primarily the three aps are switched. So when someone gets into this chat bot and answer ask any questions, so this chat bot API will give a call to custom knowledge.  So this custom knowledge to get the which are GPT API will understand the question and search for the answer from the custom knowledge and give the answer to the user. That's what it's a three-step process. So I hope you understand if you have a different I'm like if you didn't understand this task again in the zoom zoom zoom chat or here.  Can you share more AI implementation ideas related to FBSI domain? First I need to look, look what is FBSI. Banking, financial service and insurance. Okay. Can you share more AI implementation ideas related to... Okay, Rahul. Just give me a minute. I'll just put it here. Maybe in the next session.  I will have some idea on that. Just give me a second. Yeah. Okay, Rahul will be giving you answer next time.  What are plugins? Plugins are just like apps. Plugins are like, what are plugins? Plugins are like, see when Chargipity can't build every single feature in the Chargipity, so they will give an opportunity to build a plugin or an extra feature inside Chargipity for other developers. So developers will use this opportunity to build a plugin for Chargipity for adding a feature and  After adding a feature, they'll make money like, you know, by building a plugins. They can charge some money just like what's I'm like, you know, just like App Store right in App Store or Play Store Android or iOS can't build every. Sorry guys Android or iOS can't build AP. I'm like can't build every single app in door in door in their app stores to increase the features in their web, you know in the in the mobile phone. So that's where they introduce something called App Store.  and ask people to build apps. So plugins are for charge equity and apps are for app like, you know are for our mobile phones. And I like this question, you know, the reason is this guy asked us a very basic question. Okay, but very good one like, you know, many of you guys might not be able to understand it comprehend it. So yeah, that's cool.  and be just like this anonymous or like this guy i'm not sure about the name by asking very basic questions too that would definitely help no matter how much basic it is just ask away and we'll try and solve your questions but before asking you need to just do one thing just don't ask without thinking that's all like you know obviously i'm not just saying this is uh like that guys someone is just ringing the bell just give me  Yeah, I have been okay guys. I think can you show okay, I guess I Can you show guys this is where you will get the platform links. Maybe if you want this thing, I'm pasting it here. You can just simply paste it and then log in and then stuff like that. I think we can build a small customer.  Yeah, she can let's talk this offline. If you have any doubts, you can just like, you know, maybe ask me in Instagram or maybe we will clarify it in the next week session. Okay, because it's little towards the end.  So guys, I guess that's all for this. We have we spend good one and a half hour 90 minutes on this. I hope you love the session and just if you love the session, I just want one thing from you very basic just share the reviews. How did you felt about it? Is it good? Is it great or something inside the whatsapp group? You're in just like that. Maybe 10 people out of you if you could just give good reviews or something about maybe not good maybe bad whatever.  Inside the whatsapp group if it is good and it made you think it gave you different opportunities Just drop a review inside the whatsapp group. The reason i'm asking is Not just for me other people who are not attending this despite paying me money Will have this little motivation to attend the next session. That's all  Like you know, they might be missed. So if I could just say this to them that you know, the session is great. I've not gave this good knowledge this new ideas or I felt like this after this session and stuff like that. They'll feel inspired and motivated to attend the next session. That's all already lot of people are attending it. But still I want all of them to attend it just myself is reason to share the knowledge to almost everyone that's that I could inside this whole thing. Got it guys. I said, okay, will you will you drop the review?  Yeah. Rajuri Pawankumar, I think you are in the wrong WhatsApp group. Like you are not maybe in the premium WhatsApp group. So I'll give you the link of premium WhatsApp group. Just give me a minute.  Yeah. Pawan, I think you should join in this WhatsApp group. Okay, sure. Very happy about this session. Joseph, thanks a lot. Shanti, yeah, sure. Great, guys. See, in the next week session, we're also planning to do one more session in the middle of the week so that we could, you know, carry out the different time zones and, you know, like that. As someone asked, we'll be trying to doing two, if not more, just maximum two.  So one will be FAQs and one will be something like this and I'll try like you know I can't guarantee to every single week but just for next week since you're coming the commitment is only one but I'll try and do two whenever I have little more time like it's with a short notice I'll come answer your questions and go close the sessions. So that's it for this video guys. Thanks a lot. Bye bye. See you the next week. Good morning. Have a great weekend. Bye bye.  I should bring bigger missing really great session. This should be worth lax but offering for less cost. Thanks Ayesha. Thanks a lot. Yeah, bye guys. Bye. Unable to join the group. Amar you should be able to.  Just give me a second. It's a copy link. Just try again. I'm right. I dropped the chart. I dropped a message in the chat. You can Somali. Thank you. Okay, great. Anyone who is not who is not in the premium WhatsApp group. You're enjoying here. Okay guys. Thank you. Bye. Bye.  Sure, I'll let you in. Thank you. Okay, Amar, just message Vedika. Okay, who is the group admin? Okay, sorry. Message Nitin who might be the group admin for your previous group you're into and he'll take care of it. Okay, bye-bye.
1sccs
2. Deep Q&A with Avinash about AI and Prompt Engineering  11032024
	Hi, Suman Krishna. I remember you from Saturday's Masterclass. Hi. Good morning. Good morning, good evening, and good afternoon, depending upon the country you're joining from. Good morning, Bhargava. Hi, Suman Narayan.  Good morning, Jogesh. Good morning everyone. Good morning, Tarun.  How many of you guys are joining this session for the first time? Type in the word yes. Just type in the word yes if you're joining this session for the first time like the inner circle call session for the first time. Amazing. Suman, Sushmita, Shri Krishna, Bhargavi Kishore, Anil, Shiva, Imtiaz,  Okay, a lot of people were new to the inner circle calls. That's good. That's good to see all the new folks here. Amazing. How many of you are joining the inner circle call for say more than once? Type in the word me in the chat box if you are the member of the community so long ago and all. Type in the word me if you are joining it for the let's say more than once.  This is my second time. Amazing. Great, great. Oh, great. Cool.  For the people who are joining this for the second time, how is it going with you all? Like, how is the learning experience with Freedom with AI have been till now? Type in the word, whatever you wanted to say, just type it. Like, how is your experience learning about AI at Freedom with AI? Someone says it's amazing. Thank you.  Learning something new on a daily basis about AI. Amazing. Great. Suman Narayana says, lots of information and awareness to the module. Thank you. It has been very good, Srini. Good so far, learning a lot. Thank you, her. So far, it's good learning, co-pilot. Aslam, amazing. Great.  It really boosts the confidence about using AI. Frankly speaking, I need to increase my pace, but till what I've learned was absolutely fantastic. Thank you, Praveen. Pragya says, I completed the introduction working to complete the blueprint. Your explanations are clear and very informative. Thank you, Pragya. Great. So, guys, are you able to view my message? Yes, Vala Kishore, I am able to view my message.  So guys, the goal of this entire inner circle call is to clear all your questions. So no matter if you are someone who just joined, you will have the best starting experience so that you will be  having no doubts before you start out so that you will be set for success and for the people who are not so consistent you know it will help in getting back to the momentum. So, that is the reason almost for the next one hour I will do nothing but clear all your questions simple.  Roshan says, whatever you're teaching my company is taking steps to teach us. But you guys were way ahead, so it's helping me to lead the AI front things. Thank you, Roshan. Thanks a lot.  So guys, just shoot any and every question that you have in terms of AI, in terms of business, in terms of the company freedom with AI, any question you have whatsoever, just feel very free to ask it in the chat box so that I can answer them right away.  I'll just open Slido. Slido is the place where people who are unable to attend will be giving their questions. We only have one question here today, which says how AI can help maintain a learning management system. In the learning management system, AI or StrategyBuddy will be able to give you  the modules that you need to store and you could also introduce a chatbot in your learning management system where people who join you or your system could ask  questions that can be automatically answered by you know AI chatbot that way you will save a lot of time and users will also get a quick answer. So, these are the two three things that I could think of how AI could be used to maintain a learning management system yeah.  Would you please share if your students have been able to switch their careers as prompt engineers? Yes, there were a couple of people that I saw recently switched.  and got prompt engineering, you know, roles as freelancers, consultants, and, you know, they in fact learn prompt engineering and helping their companies to be more efficient already in their own roles, all that. There were people that were doing it. But see, more than switching your career, the course is not about switching careers from whatever you have to prompt engineering.  that's like the ultimate goal maybe by end of 365 days. The first goal is learn about AI so that in the future you will not you will have very less chance of being laid off because you have a certification on AI or prompt engineering and a lot of caps on projects right. So, the the the I mean like you know  So the chances of you being at risk of job loss will be a lot less. That's goal number one. Goal number two is wherever you are, you'll be able to do more work using AI in less time. That means you're productive. The moment you are more productive to a company, chances of they giving you a better hike  in the next you know salary hike cycle will be a lot more right. So, maybe this when the economy gets little better whenever the company starts giving hikes you will be in a position to get a fancy hike that's goal number 2. Goal number 3 is  you doing some side hustle while learning things like prompt engineering, ChatGPT and usage of AI tools. That's goal number three. And fourth goal of this entire course is actually hard switch your career from whatever you're doing to a proper prompt engineer. That's like the fourth goal. These are the three goals that we have. Fourth goal is that whatever you are asking,  Yeah, so I hope I answered your question. Just type in the word. Yes, if I answered your question. Mahindra says, could you please share me 500 prompts document to melvin.iifa? Okay, so Gracie, you could get 500 prompts through our learning management system. If at all you go to our featurebooks.freedomwithai.com slash courses, you will see a course that's called  Okay, I'll just share the screen so that you'll understand where you can exactly find  Yeah, so this is the course I'm talking about unlocking ChatGPT 500 not so obvious ChatGPT prompts. So if you see we have 500 not so obvious prompts and also for programmers we build 100 prompts separately just for them. So these are the 600 prompts that you could maybe look into. So instead of sending it to your email, I think this is the best and just to avoid privacy we don't  email people on a personal level so just get it from here if that's hope that works yeah great can you share any data centers positions for h1 b's in  Sridevi, I'm not sure about that because we usually, okay, so what we do here is we don't crawl the job listings on data science alone. We generally crawl, every month we crawl like two, three hundred jobs in prompt engineering across the world.  both technical non-technical and you know generative AI engineering job roles all three will crawl and give you a document in an Excel sheet and that Excel sheet will update every month. So if I think that will be helpful we have specific companies in USA offering this so maybe applying to those roles I think  you will get those, you will get what you want. I hope I answered your question, Sridevi. I think tomorrow or day after is where we'll announce about this, you know, job listings. How exactly we can start discussing within your project about AI initiation, for example, banking domain.  So Balakrishna, I can't give you an exact answer for that question because you have to come up with that answer after consuming content. You first consume content, do your own research on YouTube, Google and ChatGPT. You could ask ChatGPT on how you could use ChatGPT or AI in your space, writing a great prompt and all that.  I might not be actually giving an exact answer but you will get an exact answer maybe one month to two months after joining this because that research has to be done by you and I am sure you will be able to crack it.  Hi Vinash, does the course also covers other competitive AIs, such as Jibrity like Mistral AI or prompts that we learnt in BUCS. Yes, whatever the techniques that you are learning, tools, say prompts that we are giving, keywords we are giving will not only work in particular large language model, it will work with almost every single large language model including Jibrity, Googlebot, cloud2, it's the same. We are giving you  Now, prompts for AI models, not just saturated. I hope that answered your question, Suman. Just type in the word, yes, if that makes sense. After prompting, if you want some edits, the results came after the edit are different than original, most of the times. They add or remove completely a new result. So if you want to edit an original result, what should we do? Interesting answer. It's an interesting question.  So what I generally do is to the I'll just share the screen and I'll just show you what I generally do. So I'll just open charge of it. So imagine this is the table that I created for the master class last Saturday. So I thought I just have to something. Okay, imagine I didn't like.  the headline one. I just want headline ones to be say three or five words, right? I'll go to ChatGPT and ask something like this. Keep everything. As it is, but just  change the headline one with five words each. So, what I am essentially doing is, I don't want to, I loved  See description 1 and description 2. So I don't want it to be changed. I just want headline 1 to be also for 5 words. So simply that keep everything as it is, but just change the headline 1 with 5 words each. So now let's see if AI will be able to pick up. So embark on your crypto journey with our experts. And if you see embark on your crypto journey learn from seasoned crypto.  learn from seasoned crypto professionals satisfy the curiosity of our company to comprehensive thing and Satisfy the curiosity. So it's all the same but it's just four to five words. It's not just two words anymore It's just a little bigger one. Like we asked it for five words. Sometimes it will be four Sometimes it will be six and stuff like that, right? So did that answer your question? So now let's just understand  I'll not keep everything as it is right now and I'll just say just change. I'll just go to just change the headline. To what's each book? Now, let's see. This is a prompt that I gave to my you know team  where I want my team to be able to explain how AI can help whatever, you know, the person that joins in the masterclass, they generally ask how can it help me and all. So I just wrote a prompt and stuff like that for the scene. So what I'll try and do is right now, so I'll just copy this, or maybe, yeah, I'll just copy this. Wait.  So the what I'm trying to do basically is in the previous prompt. I just said keep everything as it is now. I just wanted to you know, edit the prompt a bit and without saying keep everything as it is thing and you'll see the difference of ChatGPT not able to do that. Let's just say  with nine years experience see nothing will happen with eight years or nine years experience right it's almost the same when you just make a small minor edit and just enter again and you will just see the difference like throughout this efficiency in data processing it's not the case the first point here is automating routine tasks automated reporting query management enhance the data quality so it's totally different you see  that is the difference of just adding the word keep everything as it is and then give the change or give the edit that you wish to have. I hope that helped you a bit. You know. Shruti, just type in the word yes if you feel that you've got the answer that you wanted.  Bhargavi and it is mentioned in the prompt format knowledge session that it is mentioned to include five main components. So yeah, so Bhargavi will not have any detailed session because we believe it is already detailed. Any more sessions on top of it might be very confused again. So just rewatch it even if after rewatching it twice if you're not able to crack it.  then I'll definitely do a session on that because a lot of people said that it's super clear concise and perfect. If at all you have a problem even after two times just let me know we'll try and accommodate one more session on that. Thank you.  Praveen says at what time will you able to get the tag of prompt engineer I meant what to come so basically there is no point of time just because see you are a Java developer at what point of time you will be considered as a Java developer while you are learning Java you know programming there is no point  Because even when you write two to three lines of basic codes in Java, you will be called as Java developer. Or if you are an advanced person also, you will be called as that.  Fortunately, it's the same with prompt engineering. It's not like it only when you're an expert level, you will be calling ChatGPT. But according to me, like I will call someone as a good non-technical prompt engineer when they use at least four to five components on every prompt they use. That's the first criteria that I look if he or she is a professional prompt engineer or not. Number one.  Does he or she know 5-15 AI tools that he or she could use in the workflow in his job?  10 at max of prompting techniques so that whatever the scenario that you get in a professional work life you'll be able to navigate that you know scenario using tangibility. It could be a marketing strategy, it could be writing a book for your boss as a content writer, it could be creating an entire logo or a new brand image for your company. Anything  any situation knowing right prompting technique is very important because one prompting technique will only be helpful in certain scenarios that's why knowledge of 5 to 10 prompting techniques always help. So we almost covered I guess 10 prompting techniques but we'll keep adding new ones from new AI research papers. Prevent typing the word yes if you now understood at what point you'll be considered as non-technical prompt engineer.  Then there is something called generative AI engineering where you will be able to build a lot of on top of this. If you are able to build small, small chatbots, small, small AI apps using no code SAS tools for basic programming with no code or less code, less code SAS tools, you will be able to do that. So that is when I will consider you as a generative prompt, generative AI engineer.  and the third level when is like technical prompt engineer or proper AI engineer is what we'll call them where they'll be building large language models and large AI apps and stuff when they have proper data science experience with NLP specialization. Any free tools similar to GitHub and Microsoft Copilot  We have chat GPT. We have Jupiter notebooks also search for Jupiter notebooks. I think it's by Amazon if I'm not wrong. And I'm not sure if it is totally free. So chat GPT Google bot and also cloud to CL.  UDE, C-L-A-U-D-E, Cloud 2 by Anthropic is also very good for coders. It's very in-depth right now. Like it is beating everything for Charchipiti 4 these days. So maybe just try this tool, Cloud 2. I'll just type it in the chat box. Yeah. Yeah, Shruti, it is Cloud, yeah.  Okay. Even though I'm learning AI tools and prompting techniques, when it comes to implementation, the first thing which comes to applying data protection, you have to have a private API network to use large language models. So, usually in ChargeAPT, if you go right now, you could actually turn off  this when you go to settings and when you go to data controls chart history and training save new charts on the browser to your history and allow them to be used to improve our models if you just turn this off no data you give to ChatGPT will be saved on the servers or in the chart in your platform in your laptop or computer as well so  turning this off is one good thing that you could do on top of this there is something called data masking that you could do so that you can protect the data of the client so that's the only thing that you could literally do but i'm sure in the future any company that you are currently associated with will have their own version of ChatGPT where in the back end they'll use ChatGPT  But in the front end they will have a patch or they will have a code that will protect all the sensitive data to be reaching to charge abt before it reaches to charge abt and will just data mask on automated way or something like that that will happen.  in the future very sure but for now these are the things that you could do Roshan. I would highly suggest to cut the sensitive information and do the data masking for all the things like or maybe just change names and values  and stuff like that. That's the only thing that you could literally do right now. We are in a world where data is not super private anymore. Anything that you have in your mobile phone is accessible to any of these big companies. So unfortunately, that is the answer. Hi Avinash, I missed our last call on last Sunday. Can I get the recording of the session? Satish, we already uploaded this in the inner circle calls module. If you go to  learning management system or freedom teachables.freedomwithai.com slash courses you'll be able to see all the innocent recalls in which you'll see the last sentence in a second call also.  I mean, Shruti, DALY 3 was not stopped. If you go to ChatGPT, you need to take ChatGPT subscription. Inside ChatGPT, you will be able to get DALY 3 internally. So right now, if you see, you can take ChatGPT 4 or ChatGPT plus subscription. And now, ChatGPT has been combined with DALY, and you just need one subscription right now. So you don't need a secondary subscription, DALY subscription, yeah?  Where can I find that Excel sheet, please? So in like Sridevi, I didn't get your exact question you meant Job listings, right? Okay job listings if you see I'll just see wait We will be sending that the updated version very soon. So don't worry. I'm just showing where it will be updated and  Just give me a second.  Okay, I think I don't have access as a student to that particular thing right now, but I will let you know. So, it will be emailed and you know also announced in our WhatsApp groups publicly the moment it is live Sreedevi. So, don't worry about that. Okay, where can we find that excel sheet? I think  I just answered I want to start a side hustle that can start generating passive income after some time using various tools looking to learn how to use how to do that as of can you guide on this so Pragya okay so since Pragya you know Pragya asked this question I'll just have some I have something that I could say okay how many of you believe making money  is not very easy type in the word yes just type the word yes if you believe making money is not very easy just type the word yes yeah amazing quite a few believe in that right and how many of you also believe making money is not very difficult type in the word yes type in the word yes if you believe making money is not very difficult  for everyone who typed in yes for the previous. Do you also believe it's not that difficult to make money?  absolutely right so now see making money is not easy and it's not even rocket science also if you see surroundings of you your life you'll see people making tons of cash very easily these days you go to youtube you go to instagram people are making money by doing like they are doing something very  something that we didn't even think and making money out of it. Agreed? Do you think making money is easier right now than ever in the history of humanity? Type in the word yes. Do you think our grandfathers have better opportunities or our father's generation have better opportunities than us? Absolutely not. But the only thing that is required to make money right now is to do a research. Think about how can you make money?  But the problem with the generation that we are having unfortunately both millennials or Gen Z is.  whenever they want to make money they were just like with the question of how to make money they don't research they just see hey how can I make money how can I make money how can I make money but they'll not do any research on top of it and I'm not saying this to Pragya by the way it's just for everyone right she asked the question I just wanted to set you in the right mindset before you start consuming content or go further with our you know membership right  Okay, coming back. It's not very easy. It's not very difficult. It's just very averagely, you know, in terms of difficulty, it's very average to be able to make money. But the question that you need to ask right now is not how to make money. You should ask, how can I learn about AI so that I can add value  to some x so that x will pay me money since i am either adding comfort or solving his or problem his or her problem right it's not about how can you make money it's about how can i learn something  and inverse that skill that I learned to solve a problem or add comfort to the life of some x or y so that x or y will pay me some money. So this is how humans make money. If you don't add value but take money that's called scam.  Right? If you're working for a company without adding very value, you're actually scamming. If you are actually adding value and providing some productivity to the company, then you are actually a good employee. Do you all agree with me? Yes. Remember, you know, my mom always used to say, when you chase Lakshmi, Lakshmi will not come to you. But when you leave Lakshmi behind,  and chase growth, chase skills, chase change, Lakshmi will automatically follow you. Just like Mahesh Babu in Maharshi movie says, you have to leave money and run towards your skills, run towards your change, run towards your growth so that you could create a value proposition to your client by adding some value so that he will pay you the money or she will pay you the money.  This is the mindset that you need. So to be able to do that right now with this freedom with AI membership, there are certain steps. Before I go into the certain steps, do you all agree with what I said right now? You'll not be able to make money by just asking the question of how to make money. The second question you need to ask after the first question that you get is how can I add value?  The moment you figure out, okay, I have to do something so that I can add value and make money because investing into freedom with AI is not like investing in stock market. In stock market, it's a passive income. You just invest once, work it, your money might grow if the company performs. But here at Freedom with AI, unfortunately, you have to actively work a few months to be able to make money passively after a few months.  Yes, I agree. Say yes. Say yes if this totally makes sense. Amazing. Thank you. Thank you for being very open. So now, I'll say a few steps on how to basically go about it. See, number one, consume content, right? Number two, if you're not consuming content, you will be definitely not getting the knowledge. That's an obvious thing. Number three is,  implementing things that you are learning through capstone projects, right? We have capstone projects complete every single capstone projects that you can literally like if at all you have a chance to complete 100% of the capstone projects just complete them. So once you complete capstone projects, we have like a lot of capstone projects. It will basically give you a sense of achievement. That's obviously but more than that your shift  will directly happen in your identity to AI. You will now feel learning AI tool is easy, doing something about AI is very easy. The moment you feel learning something about AI is easy by implementing it, you will just explore more than you could ever in the world of AI. So, Capstone projects are important for that reason. Once Capstone projects were done, okay,  Third step is doing tangential information.  So, when I mean consuming content for passive income there is a separate roadmap that I gave for getting heights and all there is a separate roadmap. So, totally different different roadmaps. So, if I want to talk to only the people who want to make passive income or some side hustle by actively working for a few days, I will let you know, right. You have to complete AI monetization section and pick one business model out of 30 business models that we recommend using AI.  if not one pick two three that you think that you need to explore upon that is the number one course that you need to do after all the compulsory courses right.  you need to do AI for business owners because even if you're an aspiring business owner, doing this course will make you understand how to do customer research, how to do competitor research, how to do domain research, everything. So once you do research, once you know how to get clients, once you know how to maintain clients, all that things  you will be able to implement the business model that you picked in AI monetization. So, once these are the two courses that you need to consume to be able to make passive income. Once you are done with, you know, consuming content, you have to do caps and projects, then there is something called tangential information.  Are they any people in the market actively making money using the AI monetization strategy that we recommended in AI monetization course? Go to the YouTube and research on it. Did you pick faceless YouTube channels as a niche using AI? Go in YouTube and just type, can I make money using faceless channels?  face this channel's future in 2024 on YouTube. Type in something like that and do research. Go to Charjeepati. Ask Charjeepati about the suggestions. Just talk to Charjeepati. Once you do tangential information research and Google  YouTube and Sarjapati, you'll have more perspective about something than what we give you. So the perspective we give will obviously bias because we are doing it. So you don't need to buy our biasness when we are doing things. And this is not just for our course. Whatever you are doing, if you're not buying or if you're not researching three to four perspectives about the same topic, you'll not be able to get your own perspective.  if you are just watching one youtube video about a topic and deciding your future that's that's not good right in a similar way don't believe us we might be experts teaching you but that's our perspective get some other perspectives two to three perspectives in your tangential information tangential research from different social you know platforms so that you will be able to  actually then go start a business after your research. So once then you start a business, it will be easy. All this might sound very difficult. Trust me, when you're going to the flow state, where working two to three extra hours on AI is just very easy for you, nothing will seem difficult to you. It's very, very, very easy.  if this is an exact roadmap to be able to make a passive income and we'll obviously have a record recording uh we'll have a recorded video on topic exactly this in the inner circle like in the intro to the course also in the future i recorded a video it's being edited so if you just want to re-watch on this roadmap to actually make money roadmap to be actually getting the hike and all that  you will have a video in maybe two three days we'll just have a proper video on that topic so type in the word me if whatever I said in the last five minutes totally makes sense just type in the word me because there is nothing called quick money quick money will not be in long term that's what I believe you work actively so that you can make money passively  So Chandrasekhar if you don't have any clarity about the course start watching content in intro to the course module because in intro to the course module there is a video called roadmap that will actually help you with a roadmap video like give you a roadmap to consume actual content. Wow lot of people are saying me me me me me. Thank you. Amazing. So I'll just quickly go answer more questions. Yeah.  if you are a beginner if you have no idea of anything just start with intro to the course modules that will have all the things that you need to start the whole stuff yeah okay  Hi Avinash, what do we have to do after completing the course you provided, just practicing prompts or anything else? I think I answered your question. Hi Avinash, I have one question. So Jyoti, we'll have a session next week with a technical person called Madhu.  All your technical questions could be answered in a greater detail in that session, which is happening next Saturday. Hopefully, in that session, you know, you'll be able to clear all your doubts.  For gold plan, is ChatGPT for subscription included? Karthika, no, we don't give any subscriptions of ChatGPT or mid journey. Unfortunately, we can't afford to give to everyone because that's a lot of money, right? Sorry.  And Sudhir Veera, sometimes I am not able to join Sunday sessions. It says you are not allowed. Sudhir Varma, it only happened once because of the limit of the Zoom, we reached 100 plus members in that week. Because it was conducted by other mentor, there is a little communication back. But don't worry, you will be able to join every single session from now on. It only I guess happened with one.  it will not happen ever again. So, it just happened for few very less people. So, yeah.  Hi, my name is Cyrus. I have sent an email request joining WhatsApp group, still waiting for approval. All the WhatsApp group request Cyrus will be approved in the next 24 hours because Akeel will not be working on Sunday, right? So for that reason, we are not able to approve. But in the next 24 hours, you'll see all the things will getting approved.  as a beginner okay I am not in any group I am still have not received any swimming for today's call until I have called them please look into it Chandrasekhar sure I will look into it Chandrasekhar I think did you give an exact right email and if you gave an exact right email you will be able to receive the thing but still I will be sharing you the  invite link for that so yeah i'll just share the invite link chandrasekhar here is the invite link just join whatsapp group you will be little handy every week existing members are also getting masterclass link how many masterclasses do okay shweta we do it once  There is no certain fast tool that we do. Sometimes we do once in two weeks, once in one month, depending upon the progress of current batch. If you see people are progressing, you know, we we get we generally call people like we survey them. We understand if they are on the right track. The moment we believe the current current batch is on the right track from our surveys, from the interactions that we have, we conduct the next masterclass and take the next, you know, learners. Yeah.  Yeah, I don't know maybe the whatsapp group invitation approval So Jogesh whatsapp group, I'm not sure you have to Yeah, so Jogesh that's the whatsapp group I'm talking about you can just apply for that whatsapp group. Hi Avinash Okay  enroll the form for license canva plus is it to any video but have not got the approval on the license so kartika i think you will be getting uh the license very soon uh when did you fill the form if at all you fill the form in the last seven just the last one week you'll be getting this week if you don't get it contact kundal who is  community manager. So, Karthika, just contact Kundan who is a community manager. I hope you know his number through WhatsApp group. He is the admin, one of the admins. So, just check and I am sure he will be able to help you with that. What is your thought on AI for someone like me as a network engineer can help me? Uday, I am sure  It will be able to help. In fact, ChatGPT can help you as a network engineer. Just complete the course, you will be able to answer that yourself by knowing exactly what you could do as a network engineer.  Yes, Suman Krishna, until you do courses in freedom with AI, you'll not be able to get a clear idea on a lot of things, right? That's very obvious because you're just starting out for all the complex questions that you have in your mind. You have to complete, you know, consuming content so that you'll get answers. Avinash, can we find this meeting recording for occurrence on the ESD zone?  Yes, I think last week inner circle call has already been uploaded. So if you go to inner circle call module. Yeah, so this is the inner circle call module that I'm talking about inner circle call all the past life calls if you go here past life calls we have that happened on 3rd of March last Sunday and we have 9th of March which happened on Saturday.  So you could get it here. There are already there. You could just see the topic also of the past musical calls. If at all you are interested in just exploring some calls in the past. You could definitely explore things. Yeah. Yeah.  I am a non-technical person. I saw the fifth month job listing and we wanted to apply for ML Associates. What would be my preparation tools which I should learn? Gracie, to be able to be a non-technical prompt engineer.  to be able to shift and apply to those February month job listings. What you have to do is simply complete the course and do at least 10 Capstone projects in the Capstone projects, you know, module or course and from there you'll be able to apply and get selected. That's one. Once you consume content and do Capstone projects, second thing you have to do is there is a master class about  making your resume. If you see this master class has been conducted on here. If you see this master class that I am talking about crafting the ultimate resume a step-by-step guide to landing your dream job. So this is the video that you need to watch to make your CV better. So that's the first master class that you need to watch. The second master class you need to watch is  On 13th of January, we conducted how to crack your dream job interview masterclass, right? So, this masterclass will give you answers to those questions, will make you prepare for all that interview rounds that you might have. So, complete the course, do the caption projects, watch these two videos so that you will be able to make a better resume, also  Understand how this interview processes work. And then you just directly apply get selected get an interviews and congratulations. You'll be able to crack it. Yeah. Yeah. So did we get feedback? Yes, you get feedback. Once you submit all the caption projects in six months six weeks. So six caption projects typically happens  Once right now, we are like, you know, releasing caption projects on a weekly basis, right? So your first caption projects in six weeks, you should you will be able to submit your one of the last caption, but it's not the ultimate and last last caption budgets. Temporarily, that could be your last caption projects. We give feedback to all the caption projects all at once so that it will be very easy and productive for us.  Hey Avinash, are you getting my messages? Shishmita, what do you mean by what platform? Are you sending it to my email or WhatsApp, Instagram? Where are you reaching out to me? Jogesh, I am giving one session. I am working as SSS automation that includes adding users.  and giving the public SSH key and I'll add SSH key in AWC to instance. This entire process I'm getting automation kit lab pipeline. So, how AI will help me on this task? Please let me know. Give me explanation on how to search in charge of it or Google barge in mind.  So Jogesh, to answer your question, first question will be better answered by someone called Madhu. So Madhu is like a proper technical person who has knowledge of super technicalities. I could give you answer in a brief level, but that will not be a good way. So what I would suggest is to ask this question to Madhu in the next week session so that Madhu will be able to answer it in a perfect way. That's number one. Number two,  Simply writing a prompt whatever you are exactly wrote in the chat box and asking it to ChatGPT with a little bit of more context or explanation if needed charge a bit will be able to answer the question that you asked exactly in much more detail than any human could do. So maybe just try that out even charge a bit 3.5 works.  Hi Abinash, how long will we have access to all the courses with gold membership? So gold membership is for 365 days more or less. The reason why we limited the access to just one year is because we have to constantly update the course because AI is ever-growing. To be able to constantly update  Instead of just making it recorded courses, which is recorded once for all and making it as outdated one We need to update it completely on a weekly and monthly basis, right? So to be able to do that and have mentors Every month we need to pay them. So for that reason to be able to maintain the whole ecosystem So it's a yearly membership that we are charging you for  Harish, your designs you uploaded in Canva membership is personal to you. Others will not be able to see. If I have enabled any plugin like Neuron AI, is it shareable? No, not, no Harish. Sudhakar, you don't have access to the backend. I think you should have an access to the backend. I will just give you the link that  that just check your LMS. I am sure you will be getting email from teachables. So this is the link. So yeah, Avinash just taught one module on teachables. I feel after watching the long videos, there are so much information. Is there any way we can revise, refresh the content? Add a questioner answering what we have learned will help people to get highlighted numbers. Oh, it's a very good question, Suman. So I'll just add this as task to my team.  We'll add quizzes. So that way it will be a good revision. You just at any point of time can quickly come back and just see how much you have learned. Yes, you will get a certification from Smith.  The two videos that I am talking about will help any kind of people. It's the same for non-technical people, technical people to be able to crack the job and prepare a better resume. Yes.  Hi Avinash, good morning. This is the second time I'm asking this question. How could we use Word, Excel and PowerPoint on our daily work also in a circle calls? This will be greatly appreciated. Yes, Karnakar, you know, we are actually making an entire course just on using Excel with AI.  from basic to very advanced. So maybe that course could be a better a proper structured curriculum course will be a better idea than just doing some in a circle call, right? So we're almost done with it. Maybe in a max of a week you will see an entire course on AI for exit.  Hi sir, I'm Anurag and UI UX science student in UID. Hi Anurag, I remember talking to your mother, you know, last day before yesterday. We have six to seven AI modules and three to four electives. How to land and incorporate AI skills in the work when they're expecting a file segregated and to be shown when Judy asks. Anurag, I didn't ask, I didn't understand the last part of your question.  Yeah, I just didn't understand the last part of your question, Anurag. So Chandrasekhar, this is a roadmap video, right? Inside the roadmap video, you'll have an exact answer for this question. But generally, complete Freedom with AI module and then go with AI business owner session. At least complete AI business owner session as a business owner so that it will be helpful for you as a business owner.  Yes woman, you can join every week for the synesthetic calls. Archana, yes, you are exactly right.  Karthika. Yes. So the thing is first it's a self-paced course on top of it. You'll have live classes. So there you can ask question answers. That's number one 90% of the live inner circle calls will not be just Q&A will properly have a topic or an agenda for the call that will discuss and then we do Q&A. The reason we're doing this long Q&A is because we see a lot of people are just joined number one number two.  We do this say once in 4-5 weeks because people sometimes lose momentum because they have lot of questions in their brain which are unanswered. So, I come myself without any mentors so that I could just answer the questions once in every 5 weeks for one hour so that people will be back on track if they have any questions whatsoever in their brain.  on top of live classes we also have community support anytime you have a question you could be on our whatsapp group and ask that question and someone will be able to answer and even while doing caps and projects you could directly be in touch with our you know technical mentor who is Ankita  to be able to get all your answers related, all your questions answered related to the caption project that you're working on. So, the four pillars are recorded content, live classes, mentor support and community support through networking groups that we built on WhatsApp.  Bhargavi, I am not sure why you didn't get a call because Kundan generally get a call. In the worst case, just go to the same link and just try and create a new link or just  contact Kundan via whatsapp just message him hey you didn't you know attend me on the same day so can you can we just reschedule and he will be able to talk to you and Kundan is our community manager and you i hope you are in the whatsapp group and you will be able to get answers from him yes Sanjay all the  You know people in the whatsapp group will be approved very soon Yes, it's one year for everything that is related to freedom with AI course Pratap  So allow the whenever you you are certain see your your your course is teaching you the basics of UI UX or even advanced and using AI you are just fast tracking it for your project purpose in your college don't use AI tools at that point of time even when you use AI tools use AI tools to ideate and brainstorm but not to complete the whole project.  Just because colleges don't like to be using AI tools, they might be saying don't use AI tool, do it from the scratch because you will learn it perfectly. For an extent, I support colleges also for that, you know, thing. So, have the knowledge of AI and have the basics that your college teach. So, once you are done with the basics,  whatever the projects that you get in from your college do it normally but once you graduate from the college or or generally for your own enhancement of you know AI ability whatever that you have another like whatever the projects that you have apart from your college official projects then use AI for your official college purposes if you use AI I think they will not like it a lot so  know AI, brainstorm with AI, complete AI for UI, UI support, which we created. So yeah, I think just type in the word, yes, I love that answered your question Anurag.  Sushmita, there is this person called Kundan. I'll just share his number so you can just directly be in touch with him. Sushmita and Barkavi also.  Do we need to create a certificate for to learn from engineering? No, 3.5 is good enough. Only upgrade when you feel that $20 a month is not a huge deal for you, number one. Number two, or after six months or three months into the course when you feel right now you explode the depth of 3.5 and you need a little more to be getting best out of best. Yeah.  OK. Murali, when did you book a call? And Daniel also, when did you book a call? OK, I think Daniel didn't book a call. But Murali, when did you book a call?  and also Bhargavi whenever just let me know exact booking time so that I could communicate with Kundan about that because usually he he attends every single call no matter what so maybe you gave the wrong number or I don't know what exactly happened or maybe he did something I'll just get it sorted usually onboarding calls should be done I had scheduled on Monday March 6th okay  Okay, right there. Venkatesh, whoever is looking for an onboarding call, there is a mail that was sent to you to be booking a call with Kundan. So just through that mail, just book it, or maybe in the worst case, if you're not able to do that, just contact Kundan. So he'll be able to give you a slot for onboarding call. And Kundan's number is...  Venkatesh I'm giving you a cool example. Yeah, cool guys. I think I answered all your questions and how many of you learned something new from other people's questions type in the word. Yes, if you learned a lot in this session from not only your questions, but other people's questions and type in the word one if you feel that we have to do this deep Q and A's little more often.  Anand says, while people were typing yes and me and once, I'll just answer one more question. Hi, I've been really inspired by your journey. Thanks for helping all of us getting into AI. Thank you, Anand.  I'm Anand, I'm in front-end development. I lost my job due to day off. Okay, my goal is to build business on my own. What would you suggest me? Complete freedom with AI blueprint and complete AI for business owners and also AI monetization module and go ask for the roadmap that we discussed in the intro to the course module. These are the three tips that will make you probably a lot of money if you follow it perfectly with the right mindset and if you do proper hard work. Okay, Anand, I hope I answered your question perfectly. Cool.  Great guys, I think that's it for this video how to access. Yes, are they you will be given a Google form that you need to fill. So once you fill that within 7 to 10 business working days, you will get that. Great. Thank you guys. Thank you. And for everyone who think that they got good amount of value from this inner circle call would love to hear from you through our  Trust pilot just give us a five-star rating if possible. If you are loving freedom with AI already, that's our trust pilot link and how many of you would give us a five-star link type the number five type the number five if you feel trust but you will be giving a five-star rating interest for it right away after this call, but love to personally read all of your messages and reply myself if you you know,  If at all you could give us a Trustworthy Review. The reason I'm asking reviews is not for us, but to spread the word and get my mission of creating awareness of AI to 1 crore individuals. That's one. Number two, it will motivate my team to work more better because they'll see that, okay, whatever the work we in the company are doing is actually impacting people in a positive way. When they see the impact themselves as an employees or the part of the team,  they will just work very positively and very hard. So the more positive you be and giving us good ratings, the more hard work that my team do, ultimately, you'll get the more value on top of the value that we're already giving. So hopefully, I will see good number of reviews. I heard that UI UX is replacing humans with AI and also different background people are learning UI crash course and all this type of this. So Anurag,  How to tackle this? Simple. Learn AI. Learn prompt engine. Before AI replaces you, master AI so that AI will not replace you but work parallelly with you.  In fact under you so that it will just be an assistant but not some bossy stuff that could replace you in the future. You are the right place at the right time just do the consumption of content apply stuff and I'm sure it will be able to impact you positively guys. I got 12 people saying 5 is it it or do we have anyone else that is going to give us a 5 star rating.  Amazing. Anurag says 5, Harsh says 5, Suman says 5, Praveen says 5, Sushmita says 5, Suma, Narayan, Ajay says 5. Amazing. Thank you guys. Thanks a lot. Would love to see your messages. Munikrishnan says 5, Sudhakar says 5. Okay guys. Thank you. Bye bye. Until we meet next time, maybe the next Saturday, have a great day. Bye.  What Swetha asks, what are the live classes? These are the live classes in a cycle course that happens twice a week where we discuss about advanced concepts on AI plus live question and answers like this. I hope I answered your questions. Bye, guys. Thank you, Swetha.

3. Deep Q&A with Avinash about AI and Prompt Engineering  11032024
Just a second guys. Yep.  Hi guys, good afternoon everyone. Can you guys hear me perfectly? Just say yes in the chat box if you can just hear me perfectly.  And good afternoon, good evening, good morning, depending upon where are you joining from. I'm sorry for keeping you waited. The reason for this delay is because the Zoom had some issue, had to contact their support. Unfortunately, it's a weekend. The support is not as quick as it's supposed to be. So, for that reason, you know, it got 30 minutes or 25 minutes delayed. I'm so sorry for that.  And we'll not let this happen again. We established a proper system right now to contact support much faster. We paid 25,000 rupees monthly extra for their premium support so that they'll be turnaround time is just five minutes at any point of time. Right now, they took 20 minutes. So we paid the bill, they said, because we paid the bill yesterday, it was not reflecting and all that. Something happened, you know.  I'm sorry for that. Anyways, so I hope that's fine. We're not very able to hear you. Okay, perfect. Is that fine with you guys that it's a delayed and all just see a couple of people. Yes, if I feel good about the delay, is that okay? Okay. So Nils says yes. Thank you very much. Cool. Great guys. Thanks. And so the goal of today's meeting is to  go deep in answering your questions so that you will be perfect. So now for the people who are just starting out you'll be starting out at a perfect point with all the knowledge that you have to have before starting the course and for the people who are already in the momentum of starting with but little  and stuff they will get into the momentum for the people who are not in the momentum they join let's say three months back six months back this session will be helping you out in getting back to the momentum so that you will be getting things on track perfect everyone is clear with the objective the objective of the clear call is pretty simple you will ask me questions I will give you in-depth answer for every single question I get for the next one minute half hour  Perfect. Cool guys, shoot me all your questions. Firstly, how is it going with the learning process of freedom with AI? Type in a number one if it is going first class. Like if it is proper, you're trying to see the course, you're understanding stuff, the support is perfect. If everything is perfect for you, you just need a little more support from mind to be able to track. If that's the only thing, just type in number one.  So that I will know how many people are having good experience already. I love the way you explain things in videos. Thank you. You know, Raghavan. Thank you. Srini, My PC, Anil, all of the people were saying, Lohit, Vijeta. Thanks guys. Thanks. That's an amazing thing that we know that. Okay. Suvasini Raghavan. Okay. Suvasini. Sorry. Yeah.  Great so now time to ask questions by the way recording will be provided but the thing is don't watch recordings guys just come and attend the live classes because there is some very good thing that you can learn from lives which you will not learn while watching the recordings of the sessions so watch you know attend the live classes that will be better for all of you guys.  Okay, cool. Great. I'm just waiting for any of your questions. Where should we start? This is a very normal question that everyone keeps asking me but the thing is simple. Where do you start is intro to the course. Once you are into intro to the course complete Roadmap video and that's it that in that Roadmap video will be able to understand where to start where to end everything perfectly. So yeah, yes.  more than enough that is a good enough uh you know explanation that you need to start this i start i just start this week can i go with ai tools online on my own or will you be providing access for any ai tools so streamers will be providing access to canva and nvidia or microsoft 365 so microsoft 365 probably if at all you choose to microsoft 365 you'll get it in a 340 set max  And if you choose to have in video, I think almost all the people who choose to have in video got the access. And yeah. Cool. So these are the two things, you know that we are going to give but apart from that mid-journey ChatGPT, you have to deal with it yourself.  Right? So I hope that answered your question. Just type in yes, if that answered your question. Suhasini says, hello peeps, to make most of our IC calls, I have created a collaborative document for us to capture all the questions that have been, so Avinash team can answer either on the IC calls or to update the doc. Suhasini, we already have something called, you know, I'll just show you the Slido, where, you know, there is this thing  And by the way, thanks a lot for taking this initiative and doing it. But we have something called, you know, Slido. If you see on my screen, I'll just log in quickly, just give me a second.  We give this slido link every time while we follow up or while we inform about this inner circle calls. So this is today's thing, right? So people who don't attend or even who wants to attend and get this stuff done, they could actually ask their questions here. And other people who thinks they also have this thing, they could actually upvote it. And we could either answer it there itself, like a sure.  We started now or we could answer it in the inner circle calls. So this link me you could answer ask all your questions. I'll just share the link again so that it will be very easy for you all to you know, have the track of what's being asked and what's being answered. So I'll just  share the link in the chat box also maybe I think asking it in the zoom chat box in the live session is good and all the questions that were asked by people who didn't attend the live class because they know they will not be able to attend  Those people can ask him slido. So I hope is that okay with you Swasthi? Do you think this is also a good idea that we already have in track or do you think your strategy? We should maybe implement that whatever it is. Just let me know what you think. So Vijay says I created a website. I created a website using WordPress issues. I need to improve my UI UX design on my website. But if you use AI website builder to change the design of the website,  will be erased any options to remind previous data interesting question no unfortunately you have to restart in this case because a lot of these ai tools will have ready-made uh you know kind of  a template but they'll have a lot of ready-made templates depending upon your use case they'll just customize it on that level and will be able to give you those things so I'm sure you have to restart if you use AI tools from scratch there's no other option in this case unfortunately but then if you're talking about I'm sure you want a no-code builder if you're talking about  Coding of course, you could use ChatGPT and stuff. But if you are no code, you have to reach that. Unfortunately, we say. Yeah. Generally tool pop-up for upgrading even in video also not allowing to export gun jam Kaushik.  So we are giving access to one in video. Maybe you're looking into AI version of in video. Maybe that's where the problem is. So just check if you're checking out the AI version of in video or the normal version of in video where you're being done normal video editing process. So for we are not able to get the subscription of in video AI. We're generally getting the subscription of in video which is 14,000 rupees. So that's the whole logic behind what's happening with you.  Yeah, so any questions guys? I will be just Someone asked about the clinical SAS programmers. I will just answer you just give me one second. So as a clinical SAS programmer, what do you do on daily basis?  Just give me whoever asked this. Let me know what you do on a general daily basis. What are your tasks? Kameshwari says my main motto to take the membership is to earn extra money, but should I have some creative or innovation skills to go there which I don't have. I am software industry not sure how people extra make. Okay, so Kameshwari very simple. You have to have always little bit of innovative mindset, but the thing is for you it's a straight way. For you it is.  Learn prompt engineering, learn about AI tools and whatever you're doing in the office or if you think you could do something about that, be a consultant prompt engineer as a freelancer and by updating your profiles on Fiverr and Upwork. Learn the skill.  Create a freelancing profile and be a consultant over there. So, you could be consulting people on prompt engineering or people on chart GPT AI tools or you could be consulting people on your own work as a freelancer. So, we already thought how to create a Upwork profile, how to create a Fiverr profile, how to optimize them, how to you know get gigs faster.  all that already in the course you know if you see AI monetization session. So, you have to have little bit of innovative mindset if you do not have even a 0.1 percent of innovation in your brain it is like you cannot make extra money than your job. You have to go beyond what you do at your job and get more done in less amount of time by thinking like a business person.  or a businesswoman so that it will give you. So, if you have, do not discount on yourself saying that you do not have innovative mindset. I am sure if you are able to crack a job at whatever with the experience that you have, you are sure you have an innovative mindset, but you are just discounting on your own skill set. So, do not do that, right. So, okay.  Prakash G Hegde just talk to the community manager Kundan just whatsapp message him and he will be able to give you canvaxes immediately after the call and just trying to keep a list of questions and answers so it remains as a handbook for all the current and future learners all in one place that was the idea. So Swasthi the thing is people could also watch this inner circle calls and get the whole thing right so  Even if you have the all the questions, they're not going to answer in the document only the ones that was not answered in the inner circle calls. Maybe my team could do it but to write answers individually for every question it gets difficult. So what we do is create your questions on in a Slido and your answers will be on inner circle calls. I think that is little user friendly in my opinion.  So Srinivas, Renu Gopal, you will get a subscription for Microsoft 365 in the next three to four working days at max. So yeah, so Kundan, you will get it. It's only, we already tested, it's working out for our employees. So now we have to just give all the emails for the people who opted for Microsoft 365 and three to four working days, they'll just get it done.  Is there any HTTPS design website how to do? So Vijay, I'm not sure what you mean by HTTPS design website. But if you're asking for a no code SAS builder, there is something called 10web.io. So they also use, you know, WordPress in the back end, but then for the front end, they use AI to build the websites to you maybe check it out.  Yeah, Kameshwari, I'm sure people can also make money by writing a book, blog post, stories, images, all that. But for you, if you're already a techie for 10-15 years, you will love what you're doing. I think you should be able to be a consultant helping people in that field of area as a freelancer rather than different things. Of course, up to you because you see people with 15 years of experience in data science,  science come to us and they love image generation a lot that they learn mid-journey and all other you know AI image generations and be a consultant for mid-journey and make money from there as a side gig like they make like say two three hundred dollars a week sometimes or something like that approximately they make good amount of money as their full-time job so you could do both but you choose you if you love what you do  just do the same as a freelancer. But if you if you kind of want to experiment learn something more from this course like an image generation or a video generation or a ChatGPT prompt engineering text generation and stuff and be a freelancer or be a proper business person who actually establishes small business using the skills that you have learned and if at all you have any help after starting it will be always there to help you out and guide you in the step-by-step manner.  Hi, Abhinash has admitted three caps on projects. I just wanted to know the feedback from Animesh as I continue with other assignments. Sadhana, you know, the goal is to get all the assignments at once. So you complete all the six weeks of assignments and then we'll give the feedback. So that will be easier is what we thought. So first complete the assignments and then we'll give you the feedback on those assignments.  I'm also writing this down but just saying we intend you to do all six weeks capstone projects and for all six weeks we'll just give feedback at a time so that you can rectify those capstone projects and do it again one week may you can do all the six projects again and then you have like six projects in seven weeks done or six or twelve projects whatever it is. I'm just writing it down feedback on capstone projects.  Yeah, cool. So, I want to start Instagram AI page like you have to edit Reels like your Reels. What tools do you use it and all? So, Dhanush, we use AutoPod and we use something called Klutz, you know, K-L-U-T-Z for Klutz GPT for advanced editing. We use it for After Effects. You could maybe use CapCut also to start with.  and CapCut. We use AutoPod. These are for different different use cases, but you could use whatever that you feel like using. We use MidJourney a lot to generate images, stock images in between the reels. And of course everything is done probably on a premium Premiere Pro itself. And yeah, these are the things that we use as of now. I am sending the tool list  in the chat box right now. Autoport, CapCut, Clutch, GPT. And we use Mid Journey, we use ChargeGPT to get the basic understanding of the screenplay and stuff while script writing itself. And we use something called Opus Clips to cut bigger clips into smaller clips. And you could also use something called Descript. Descript, that is the name of the company that you could use to generate a lot of, you know,  Basically this script is like a Google Docs for video editing. So maybe watch the video there and I'm sure. Watch the video in their website. I'm sure it will be able to answer. We deal with clinical trial data as per FDA guidelines. Okay, got it. So so you could be using chart GPT to automate the routine tasks, right? Like it could be formatting preliminary data analysis or data cleaning.  Like you could of course, I am sure you will be using Excel sheet a lot. If at all you need to maintain this data. So you could literally give the Excel sheet to Advanced Data Analysis plugin in chart GPT and ask all your questions like which month do I get best sales? If you give all the data, maybe I'm not sure you do.  I'm just giving an example question okay this might not be your end question you would ask hey what is the biggest disease that people were facing with a lot of uh you know problem in the last two years you could give the data and ask this so without you analyzing everything will charge but you will analyze and be the data analysis  and will give you the whole thing so you could use it to data analysis and data visualization and you could also improve the document documentation efficiency if you know how to use AI in your excel sheet also which we are doing the course on so probably in a week we'll be having a course on how to use AI for excel right so maybe that also will be helping you out  And of course, you could always ask charge abt about the regulations that are happening right now or you could use Google part to understand the regulations and you know, lot of times you need to go through the very in-depth regulatory documents to understand what it is. Sometimes you'll not be able to understand you could just give that regulatory document to charge abt and ask charge abt to explain as if it is explaining it to a 12th standard student and or a 7th class student.  Now ChatGPT will be able to explain the complex words in a simple terminology that you will be understanding super quickly. So that could be the case and if you deal with queries like, you know, or something like that if someone is asking a question that you need to answer for you could give the context and you your question and then ask answer to ChatGPT so that ChatGPT will be able to answer to the question in your context  to your for the emails that you get or whatever the query resolution that you have you could do that as well so these are the things that i am getting on top of my mind data analysis data visualization improving documentation efficiency streamlining query resolution and number five would be keeping up up to date with uh you know regulations and stuff like that so that's what  I think that you need to concentrate on as of now. So Pavani, did that answer your question? Sadhana, what kind of image renditions be done for data scientists? It's up to you. Like it could be anything, you know, depending upon the caption, but it's just you choose because I might not be a right judge on that. So Pavani, type in your, type in yes if you got what  I meant, okay, proper, I got yes.  So can you discuss about AI tools which can summarize PDF and also read and also summarize application forms as we sure that there is something called chat PDF. Just look into it chat PDF that could you could use it right now. That's one and internally in the chat GPT only if you have the plus version, you could just upload the document to chat GPT and ask any questions to summarize or anything inside the chat GPT itself. You don't need an extra tool.  so that's one thing but if you are in 3.5 version using chat pdf will be a good idea uh okay suvashini suvashini licensing terms from generate terms of gen ai text from free apps does not provide commercial license for free plans only paid one second for factual accuracy of law  Yeah, I think these are different questions. If I'm not wrong to ask me. The first question is yes, if you are using the free version of AI tool, you are not legally permitted to be using their images.  in your commercial purpose. It is just for the projects of a capstone projects or it will just to showcase some internal PPT in a company or not a company but a college or school fine. But if you are uploading and making money out of it, it is absolutely legal to do it in a free plan. But if you do it in a paid plan under $10 of mid-journey subscription or ChatGPT subscription, I think that's  usable and i'm not sure about chart gpt's free plan usage but for mid-journey yes for chart gpt i think you could use even in the free plan is what i believe but just fact check in a google once okay uh checking for factual accuracy of output from uh llm i think you copy pasted every question that you have in your notes without formatting it but i am understanding it but don't worry i'll answer this so  Whenever you are not sure about fact-checking just ask charge a bit itself. Do you think you are correct with all your facts? So ChatGPT will do the fact-checking in one more round like imagine you ask the same a question and it might have like 20 or say 10 facts. So go give another prompt. Hey charge a bit. It's a right answer like it's a good answer, but I want you to redo the fact-checking once more.  So now you are asking chatjpd to think twice before giving answer. So this way your fact checking could be done and yeah that's only way that I will be automating my fact checking process while using any large language model. But if things are very sensitive that you need to have fact straight at any cost  Obviously, all the facts should be rechecked, but facts are being better each day in Chharchipati right now. It is giving factual answers better than yesterday. It is improving on a daily basis. So that's to answer your other question.  uh can pen pot or lucacy be used alternative to figma i am not sure about this tools maybe animation would be the right answer animation is a group admin he is a ui ux designer right just copy paste this question to animation which he will be able to answer that question so while creating professional private text with sensitive company data can apps like figma tome be used  uh whenever you are using sensitive uh information be sure to mask it like don't ask uh this present this AI presentation builders to be able to create those internal company sensitive information don't do that so get your presentation output without any sensitive information or if you have any sensitive information just mask it  Like if the name of the person is Suhasini, change Suhasini to Kaneshwari or to Uday or something like that. So, masking the data or changing the sensitive information to everything all together. If it is a 10 million dollars in revenue, write 20 million dollars in revenue in the context window. So, once you get out, then you just again go back and unlink.  redo that if you think the information is very sensitive that you are not you're not okay to put it on the public platform or on AI platform so that's one what is the best free text-to-speech for western and Indian actors of all paid ones I like natural reader the most even better than Murph AI so we have 11 labs that's number one but not that great when you compare with Murph.ai but we internally in the company use  Just a second. I'll just see we have an AI tool that we use I'm not getting the name, but it's a very good tool I'll just message my team right away and ask Yeah, I asked my team maybe the moment I get answer I'll get you know  Yeah, Suvashini, I think I answered all your questions. If at all it is, just type in the yes. And one or two questions, you just need to ask the animation. And one more question, I'll just answer it. Okay. Can you suggest me some AI tools for PPT or Excel docs? Yeah, PPT, gamma.ai. And Excel, I'll just let you know. Okay.  No guys, I will just give you a tool. I'll just paste it here. This is like a search engine for all your tools search. I know if you see the name of this particular AI tool is there is an AI for that, right? So the this is like a search engine for all your AI tools research. So imagine you want a presentation app right now presentation slides, right?  so just type in presentations and you will sort it by most saved the reason why we need most saved is oftentimes the ai tool that gets most saved are the ai tools that will have the best features right so here you see magic slides plus ai gamma dot ai in top three you'll just like you know kind of  Play with all the top three and then go from there. So and whatever the tool that you need, you know, let's say you need something for medical advice. Or medical tutor. There is a medical chart meant GPT health scanner and Miko AI and stuff like that. You go to more save and you are getting like two three AI tools right then and there which are like this has more than say 20,000 or 10,000 AI tools right now in the market. So and you are a UI UX design person right now UI  or ux that's a ui ux and you will get few ui ux you know ai tools also here so ui magic ui z ui z is something that we also used very uh rigorously for prototyping of our different apps in the past and something like that how many of you think this is an awesome ai tool type in the word yes if do you if you think there is an ai tool for that is like a savior for you for all your research type in the word yes  Yeah, let's say more saved. And there is something called GPT Excel with almost 2000 saves and finance brain with 400 saves. I think GPT Excel will be the best tool for your GPT thing. So yeah, I think, yeah, we already have this right now. So next time when you ask us a tool that  you need recommendation for before asking us just do your research here in this tool and test them if at all you are not able to find the tool here also then come to us we will do little more in-depth research and get back to you not saying that you should never ask any questions to us about the tools you can but just saying the process will be easier right and yeah and by the way we have AI apply right now for the job search and yeah  Yeah, so I think you could just play with this particular there is an AI tool for that and you could get a lot of things, you know done, you know, you could get task wise or the job wise or the job role wise AI tools and you can also understand that there is this thing called job impact in the index where how much of the impact AI could create to your job.  Communication Manager is 98% and Chief Strategy Officer 90%, Chief Executive Officer by 91%, Compliance Officer 92%. So these are the things that you could also understand about impact that AI is creating in your own job role and just understand how to prepare for it and all that from this tool itself.  Right and you could also see the top influencers in the world of AI from here and you could see the forum and you know, you could also subscribe for the newsletter and blah blah blah, right? That's it. So that's it for this tool and I'll just keep answering all other questions. Yeah.  Awesome. There is an extension in charge of it for data and analytics chatbot in charge of it for years. There is something called advanced data analysis plugin in charge of it that you could use to get all your data analysis stuff done. If you go to charge of it right now.  Yeah. So, if someone asks me how ChatGPT could help for this industry, that industry, you know what I'll do? I don't know a lot about every single industry, right? I know ChatGPT and AI could help almost every industry in some or other manner. I actually ask ChatGPT to actually give how it could be useful to a Dash role, like to a UI UX designer at Netflix.  to a finance person who is working at Andhra Bank or whatever, any bank, right? So, I just asked Sajeevati,  I am this in this company with this experience and I do this these things in this particular company and ChatGPT will be able to give me how AI or ChatGPT in a non-technical manner would be able to help me. So that is the prompt I wrote. Yeah, so now yeah, so when you go here and go to plugins and you you see advanced data analysis plugin you could be able to  understand and get things done. Right? Yeah, right now, you don't even need to install any plugin data analysis already in the charge of it for itself. You give any Excel document and ask it to just say, let's send a stand certificate of incorporation of freedom with AI. Let's just implement this and ask a question. When did freedom with AI  was incorporated. So this is basically very basic way of using data analysis plugin March 2nd 2024 in US I'm talking about we also registered our company in USA so that's why as for the certificate you could exactly upload a proper like super high-end document like with so much data and ask it to analyze something that you want  ChatGPT you know data analysis will be able to do that this data analysis plugin right now this event didn't activate the data analysis plugin but remember when it activates the data analysis plugin it's like next level of data analysis for 20 dollars a month companies right now are getting data analysis like item at a cheaper cost like i don't know i'll just give one thing um i'll just go with the data  in Hyderabad Hyderabad in last 365 days in Excel sheet. I'm not sure if I will get but I'll just try. I'll just see if I could get this in an Excel sheet. Not I'm not able to get this Excel sheet.  So imagine you get a data sheet of 365 days of weather report in Hyderabad. Charjeevati is right now able to understand this and you know, wait, I'll just see.  Yeah, so ChatGPT will be understanding 365 days of weather report or five years of weather report and can even predict what will be the weather tomorrow in your city ChatGPT can do that right now and data analysis would need a lot of time at least a day to predict the weather of next day using five years of data. I'm not sure if it will take a whole day or something but just saying  So, what people takes data analysis or professional data analysis takes say days, ChatGPT could do that in minutes or even seconds these days. So, use if you are a data analysis or deal with data using ChatGPT plus subscription. Oh God, let us just get this, get rid of this.  Yeah, using chargeable subscription and using playing with the data analysis thing will be a very good thing for you is what I believe. Right? Cool. How genuinely to share the data with AI tools and ask for analysis either very true. It is not that like easy to give up the data of our company to ChatGPT. There's something called data masking and data, you know,  shifting your data to some other thing or something like that so maybe doing that is one good idea and also one thing is you could ask ChatGPT not to take out my information right now and get out of their thing if you go here and go to settings and go to data controls you could ask ChatGPT to not  take my data to train their AI. You could literally switch off ChatGPT history and training so it will not save any data from your computer in the chat box in their servers. So you could just switch off that but I don't do that because I want I don't mind I don't give sensitive information to ChatGPT a lot of times.  When I am giving I will just turn off that for few minutes and get back to this. So, you could also try doing something like this if you are dealing with sensitive information on top of data masking. So, if you need to learn how to data mask your you know data. So, that from there it will be helping you out.  Pawan Kumar asks any offline classes Avinash like two weeks program are customized according to the requirement Pawan Kumar we are actually thinking about it maybe in the future we'll definitely let you know about that I wish to generate small AI tools for adopt stock contribution just by uploading images AI tool should give me SEO friendly title and 10 high priority keywords and 39 keywords avoid compound keywords okay  Good question. I wish to generate a small AI tool for Adobe Stock Contributors. Okay. I wish to generate an AI tool. You want to create an AI tool. Okay. Just by uploading image, AI tool should be giving SEO friendly title and all that. Good question.  So what I feel is you could literally go to ChatGPT upload any image and ask this exact question by engineering a good prompt. You say hey ChatGPT you are 20 years experience with search engine optimized specialist, especially for images. Your job is to give me SEO friendly title and targeted keywords secondary on primary and secondary keywords and 39 other keywords that I need to  have in the description of my image, get me description and all that depending upon the each image that I give you. If you would write from something in this line and give any image, I'm sure Chatterbitty will be reading your image and giving after analyzing general market SEO keywords, it will be giving you SEO keywords right away. So I'm not sure how to create. Okay, you can actually create a tool like right here.  But you could actually use chargeable. You don't even need to create a tool for this. But if you wish to create get a pair of ChatGPT, get your friend in. So your back end will be charged and your friend will be. It could be any, you know, no code SAS builder like, you know, bubble or something like that. Your friend will be bubble and your back end will be ChatGPT. So you.  could create a tool using bubble no code SAS builder and you will have a chat just like a chat user interface. You will upload an image and ask this prompt or in fact, you will not even have the prompt because the prompt could be integrated in such a way that everyone someone every time someone uploads an image will automatically get the keywords without any prompt because in the back end only you could configure this prompt in the bubble itself. So you will configure that. Okay, anyone upload an image say yes.  you could you could give a call to API of tangibility with this prompt. So friend and user will not have to type in the bigger bigger prompts and you know, they just upload an image and type in a keyword that you wish that you say and do that. So if you are doing this for other people's thing, you could create a tool. But if you want you to just do it for yourself, I think you don't need to create a tool. Yeah.  You could take an API of that and how to take API and all that has been covered in AI for developers in a very interesting, very in-depth manner.  A bubble cost a lot of money, I think somewhere around $100, $50. If at all you want to create it for the market, you could use bubble, but you could also get cheaper bubble alternatives at a cheaper price. If you go do our chatbot building course AAA, we discussed about cheaper alternatives for bubble to create a chatbot, which is at $10. We even talked about free alternatives also.  Okay, I will also ask, I'll also look into that to ask me about that questions. Vinod, Hi Avinash, how do I get more views to my social media posts? Say Twitter, I don't have any followers, but I want to get more views. Please explain in detail. Amazing question. So, Vinod, very simple. What you need to do is when you have no posts, there is no data to analyze, right? You need to go to Chatshifti and give your competitors profile  something like that and ask ChatGPT to analyze what's working for the competitors or maybe you analyze it whatever it is. So whether you analyze or ChatGPT analyze come up with the proper plan for the content to post on your Twitter. Once you get a plan just post like a random good content that you could use ChatGPT to generate learning prompting training. We have chain of thought prompting and different different prompting techniques that we taught in freedom with AI blueprint, right? So learning those prompting techniques get a best of best content  for your Twitter so imagine you you tweeted like say 50 times in a month so you'll take data in an excel sheet of each and everything about each and every like what is the post content what is the impressions what are the shares what are everything and total followers gain for each post you'll take an excel sheet and give it to chat sheet and ask it to analyze what's working and what's what's not working and why it is working and why it is not working  and then ChatGPT will be able to tell you by certain post work and by certain not and what should be the plan for the next 30 days and once it gives a plan in fact you could ask ChatGPT to give 30 days worth of content for your twitter day by day and it will give you and you could also schedule all 30 days tweets in the twitter itself and you're done you could do this once in a week so once in a month for two three hours and you're done with whole months of content just using ChatGPT you don't need any external tool all you need is twitter and ChatGPT  And I think I answered your question Vijay. Not Vijay, Vinod. Vinod, if you have any follow-up questions. I am just opening questions from this. Okay. Okay, AI tools for creating, okay, Lottie-like animations. Even I will just search it in the, you know, there is an AI for that only.  Just go to AI for that. I just type in animations.  And when I go to animations and sorted by most saved, we are getting something like D dash ID animatable. And yeah, I think animatable is a good one. And D dash ID is also very good video generation. And yeah. So these are the two tools. I'm so sorry. Animatable. Just video to video animated. Animatable is a good one.  right so if at all you're searching for it animatable is a good option yeah but i'll just see if i have any more um tools for that i think you could also for animations lottie like animations i'll just first search what is lottie i'm very bad at all the shows and stuff lottie what is lottie download free lightweight animations for website oh okay wait  okay lightweight scalable animations for your website animations just a second guys i guess when sora comes in lottie like it's the best like lottie has uh like sora will be a very good alternative for for you to generate animations for your website and uh  and all that but I think you could use any magic something called any magic also I'll just type it here animatable animatic deep motion so I'll just type in the copy paste the link only there so you will be able to see  those things okay what tools do you use to edit your instagram deals i already talked about it best ai tools for online meetings can be used along with gmeet zoom and teams i actually posted a tool uh to reduce the noise and also to summarize your meeting i'll just see the tool name uh yeah crisp.ai crisp.ai  is something that you could use right now to summarize your meetings and also to not cancel the noises and you could get one and a half hours of free usage on a daily basis. So I think for most of the people you don't get on a meeting for more than 90 minutes a day. So you could use crisp.ai. Yeah, which tools are the best free face swap images and videos with accuracy? Hagen is one of it but  it could be done to your own face but deep fakes i don't want to get into the controversy i don't want to recommend deep fakes but one thing if you want face swap or deep swap i will not recommend but you have to research on your own on theories and ai tools for that because it's not ethical i don't know how people will ethically use it but if it is you for your own content purpose with consent you could use agent  And which AI tools is the best for projection of 4K videos? What is projection of 4K videos and video creation?  Okay, AI tools for projection 4k video creation. Right now we don't have anything but Sora is coming up so wait for Sora for maybe a month or two and that will be there and you could use not PikaLab, RunwayML is something that is good as of now but Sora will kill all of them in terms of video generation very soon. What are the best ways to earn money for students with live examples at least one proof of earning?  There is this thing called YouTube. It's very simple. If you need any life proofs, you have AI monetization, right? We tried and covered life proofs also. But in fact, if we if we missed go to YouTube right now, I'll just show you by sharing the screen, right? I'll just share the screen and show you how to get a life proof case studies, right? So you go to school, you know, YouTube. Okay.  and this is my yeah whatever it is i will go to youtube and say  how to make money on Etsy using AI. You will definitely get interviews of people or case studies of people showing actually on how to make money using AI. So we are covering business model as much as we can in depth on that. But for us to able to show go get case studies and show you just to motivate you. It's a lot of work. We're already doing a lot of work. All you could do is simply  case studies you could get an interview of the person also i cracked it see this is a person who is saying i built a profitable x store in 24 hours so maybe you could watch this video and you know there is this lady money with mac how to make money selling digital downloads on etsy people are actually making money you could watch this video 1.3 million views two years back and she has updated videos just watch it and now let's imagine how to make we also recommended starting a faceless videos right how to make  faceless AI YouTube videos and make money, right? I'm not saying you to follow them at least understand who are actually making money using that. So we already covered how to make money using faceless. What are the tools and all in that but you need a case study. So just go  how to make money faceless YouTube channel. You just watch case studies of this people and they were lot of people that were actually making money. You see this other people that are actually making money using the same method.  and created a faceless YouTube channel AI tool and earn $10,000 a month and estimated dollar $36,000. So, in that way it will be easy for us not to go research a lot more we'll see what's working for other people and we already did our research and we'll come up with  an actual strategy for you to replicate instead of getting so hundreds of case studies for 30 40 different ways. So I hope that makes sense type in the word. Yes, if that makes sense to everyone like if you need a case study with life proof of making people to go to YouTube and search very simple right strategy with us and the best part is when you are searching for case studies number one, you'll get motivation number two.  uh on top of motivation you will also get some more strategy some much some more tangential information research will be done by watching other people making money on youtube exactly same way that's number two but anyway what we are trying to do is to get some people on to  like this inner circle calls or some live interviews or a podcast that we are trying to do with the people who are actually making money with the strategies that we recommended in AI monetization section with us so that you guys will have more strategies and more motivation by seeing their live studies. We already approached to 10-15 people for the podcast with the people that were already making money. Maybe very soon we will be able to crack a podcast with them.  So I think that answered that question there. What is the best free AI tool for generation? Subtitles. I'm not sure about subtitles, but I'm sure it's just a Google search away because I'm not an editor. My editor use it, but you go subtitles. AI or something like that in the there is an AI tool for that you will get  easy like this dubverse.ai translate video ai studios and stuff like that you could get it but i'm sure my video editor would be using some other tool but i'll i'll get it sorted i'll just ask him or her and let you know yeah so how to edit reels like me it's very simple we use some ai tools which we already recommended and we use adobe premiere pro plus a lot of stock footage from story blocks  adobe basic and story blocks for that and mid journey for for images and charge equity for story like creation like creation of hooks to what how many seconds the hook should be all that screenplay kind of a thing will be done with charge equity and we also use focus clips and we also use glutes dot  gpt for adobe premiere pro creation in your opinion technical non-britain which is better who can earn more so any day technical prompt engineers are the ones who will make more money when you compare with non-technical prompt engineers but the demand to the supply ratio is very uh required in the non-technical category as well so i would recommend  you to be a non-technical engineer first and then think of a technical promptinger if you have the capability of learning advanced data science with NLP specialization and stuff like that but if you're starting out aiming to be a technical promptinger in the next two three months is very difficult you need a year or two years but if you're starting out you could be a non-technical promptinger just like that.  Between wix studios and webflow. What is your preference? Can you point out difference for no code? I am not the best guy here, but I'll go to ChatGPT and ask this question and charge a bit will be able to give but more than that. I'll just ask my designer to give me answer for that. Okay, so my if my designer gives answer for that. I'll just try and copy paste this here, right? So I think I answered almost all the questions there.  Type in the chat box, please. Yeah, these are the tools that I use sadhana for that and for animations. This is a tool that I recommended. I'm just typing in the chat also and I think yeah, Hagen Crisp AI. I think these are the tools that I wrote and Sora in the future will be a very good  Runway, ML. These are the two tools that I recommend for animations or video generations and stuff like that. Proper? Cool, guys. How many of you are learning something new right now from other people's questions? You might not have that question, but now that other people were asking that question, you are actually benefiting from their questions. Type in the word, yes, if you think that is the situation of you right now.  Perfect, almost 25 people saying yes, I need everyone to be active. Guys, are you guys active right now? Able to learn something new? Say yes if that's you. Amazing, great.  So instead of Avani is asking me interested to create some recorded tutorials on specific niche using AI. Can you please explain perfect roadmap about the process to gain good income by selling the course?  I think in my masterclass, I clearly gave it a proper go, Pavani, but still, if you want it, I'll just give you again. So first, the first step is to create a curriculum for a course. Next is to create scripts for each video in the curriculum that you wanted to design. Sometimes you can have a word-to-word script and sometimes it could be a tutorial-based script where you'll not have a script, but you'll just open the tool and show them, hey, you have to do this, this, this way.  So once you are done with it, you have to be a social media queen on LinkedIn and Instagram by posting something about your course something about in your industry what's happening and stuff like that. So the people will relate to you and purchase from you. So first to create course with the help of chatjeepeti and then once you create the help of chatjeepeti you have two options either you could use tools like Hagen to create videos or you could use your own face to create, you know videos for you. I would always recommend your own  fees for a better connection but if you are like i don't care i want hagen you could use hagen also it's 100 it will take maybe 100 200 for you able to generate say four or five hours worth of course content right so once you are done with whole course creation process  you will need to sell that using social media marketing where you create content people will buy. So once you make say 4-5 lakh rupees from your own social media content from LinkedIn, you could always hide a digital marketing agency or maybe create digital marketing campaigns yourself again by using ChatGPT. Everything was again told in the master class, right? You'll create a digital marketing campaigns.  people onto your website and you need a website. Website also could be done by 10web.ai or you could prototype it using Figma and then develop it using code generated by ChargerBuddy and stuff like that you could do any of it or in the worst case you don't even need a website you could just ask people to dm and you can converse with them in the dm initially and then close it and give it in a google drive  access to their own email id that also could be done in initial case till you make like the three four lakhs then you will get a learning management uh system and then website in the front end and stuff like that so that could be the roadmap i hope i answered your question pardon me type in the word yes if it is perfect and if you have any follow-up question feel free to ask  Please confirm is enough to cover AI courses list of in this call. Thanks in advance. So Srini, did you join right now? I think I gave an proper establishment for this video. Three out of four weeks in a month will be just to cover new topics. Once in a month, we'll go deep Q&A, you know, thing. And we'll do a deep Q&A in a call so that people will basically be in the momentum. They'll not have any doubts.  When your mind have lot of questions unanswered, the little voice says you are doing something wrong, just leave it. I don't want the little voice in your brain to ruin your whole learning experience. So that for that reason, we're just doing a deep Q&A. But generally,  25% of all the inner circle calls will Q&A and 75% of the live calls inner circle calls will be to talk about the more advanced topic which we didn't cover in the course intentionally because that makes sense to cover in the live class, right? And once within four five weeks will do this deep Q&A personally by me for one to one and a half hours depending upon the questions that we have type in the word. Yes, we need that answered your question.  perfect lot of people were saying yes I am a mainframe developer and I could see there are very less impact on my job but I would learn to learn new things planning to make this as my primary job in coming days how to generate money and also how to get my business clients. So Madhu as I told you before not you but someone else  You could be a freelancer. Number one. That could be option number two. Doing the same thing that you are doing in your office or in your career right now. That could be one. Number one. Number two, you could be a freelancer by helping people on Prompt Engineering and SatGPT. Tomorrow we are going to release a whole excel sheet with lots of  you know freelancing jobs full-time jobs in india in usa canada everywhere else we're going to give you that that will be handy for you to apply for this freelancing job roles and stuff like that we crawl entire internet for like almost two three weeks to get you this jobs in the best companies and stuff so you could start applying there so you could be freelancer doing the same thing that you're doing with the help of ai  or you could be a freelancer helping people on prompt engineering on charging with your AI tools option number two if you don't want this to number three could be pick a business model from AI monetization and compete AI for business owner section by understanding what business model you need to choose and understanding how business works in general combination of that you will be able to properly understand everything to be able to make money as a business owner with the mindset of a business owner rather than a individual contributor, right?  So, I hope that answered your question. Madhu type in the word yes if that answered your question.  What are the skills required to be a technical prompt engineer? Skills, data science, Python, and no, natural language processing, NLP specialization. Just having the concept of data science will not make you like a top-notch professional. You need to also specialize that in NLP. Dhanush, I think that answered your question. What are the skills required to be a technical? Yes, I answered that.  in the programming in prompt in prompting engineering difference mega prompt and zero prompt and every prompt I didn't get your question Virendranath but I'll just try and explain okay see there are like 15 20 prompting techniques that you have in general that you could learn as a non-technical prompt engineer to be able to use this AI tools and large language models to be the to the best extent possible right  The reason why you are learning different strategies is different techniques will be useful for different scenarios. So you are now being equipped with all the techniques so that you could firefight with any large language model that you want in the future.  So sometimes you don't need a long prompt. Then you will just write a one or two line prompt. Sometimes you need to write a 40,000 or heavy complex thing. You will then use chain of thought prompting or tree of thought prompting. Sometimes you need it's simple answer, but you need it to be little better. You use two short or three short prompting where you're not using chain of thought prompting, but you're using two to three short prompting where you're dividing your initial prompt into two to three steps and asking questions. So the tangibility will not be confused.  Sometimes you need to create a strategy from scratch to your company. Then you will use tree of thought prompting. You will ask ChatGPT to go and answer by thinking in of a role of a designer.  and thinking a role of a developer on thinking a developer of a marketing strategist. So when you give different rules to charge ability, the perspective will be different and collecting the feedback from different rules from ChatGPT, you are able to understand things better. So that's what we discussed with free, you know, tree of thought prompting there as well, right?  So, these are the prompting techniques that we are teaching that will help you in different scenarios. So, you have to have expertise in all of them and Megaprompt also like very important like if you are not utilizing Megaprompt, you are just losing out on the very in-depth knowledge of ChatGPT.  One of the capstone projects ask for VLS script. Any idea which tool is the best or second best just suggest VLS script. Is it VLS Sadhana or VSM? Just type in answer. Suhasini Raghavan says your course is 100x the investment we made. I'm just screenshotting this. Because  Yeah, I'm just screenshotting this. Thank you. Madhu says yes. Do you recommend any prompt engineering learning website or your videos are sufficient? Sriram Moorthy, first complete my course. Once you're complete, then ask LCU. There are courses that, you know, there are websites we also follow. There are influences on Twitter, LinkedIn influence that we follow on top of it. But then the problem is you'll be overwhelmed by following a lot of sources of information.  Keep your main source or 90% source of information from just one area right instead of 10 different areas, 10 different people. So this will make your process easy and efficient. For now just concentrate on Freedom with AI course and then we'll do one step at a time little later. Please suggest free and paid AI tools for language translation of YouTube video. Paid version how much it costs which is the best.  Right now, there are not 100% efficient, you know, tools either that I would recommend. But I am just asking this questions to, you know, my team, just give me some time. So my team will give answer to this in some time. And I just give you like I know a couple of tools, but I don't know if they are best or not. So I just answered ask this question.  For someone who asked me a question on best x2 image tool in the industry right now with US apps and specifically I would say well said labs but if you need Indian I have with the best we tested is morph AI but there is some other tool that you know  Suvasini also recommended, so that is also one thing. I think Suvasini, that's your question, right? So, Murph.ai, well-said labs, but well-said labs is only for English or USA based performances or things.  Dhanush, we will make you to reach two steps of your technical prompt engineering which is non-technical prompt engineering and generative AI engineering. We will be able to teach you non-technical and also teach you to build small small AI tools and chatbots to start your journey. But the technical prompt engineering will be the next thing that we offer as an advanced course  like not right now maybe in two to three months you'll be able to hear us about that so that is like say next level course that we are designing to make someone from scratch to reach technical prompt engineer and get placed at 40 lakhs 50 lakhs in India and get placed at 200 300 500 000 in USA in companies like Anthropic, Google, Facebook and stuff like that.  We're trying to create a whole course from that that will help you to become a technical prompting self and that is like the best in the world is what we're trying to aim. So that is third step which you will learn after this.  Can we have an AI tools that can read my emails and send persons as well as SMS's, WhatsApp images within time frame so that I can manage my business emails and SMS's. See, there are AI tools that you could integrate something called Babli with, you know, chat GPT and every time you get an email, you'll get, they will get an answer immediately. But the problem with that is,  If it is a very for business, it makes sense. Like you could automate you could integrate chargibility and probably probably is like kind of connector. Like, you know, you will connect to apps probably is the middle one. You're connecting tragedy to your email. The problem with that is if you are a working professional chargibility might not have context of previous emails and stuff like that and it will be writing a generic email.  But what you could do is copy this email and go to Chargipity.  and give more context and then ask charge a bit a writer reply, then it will be better. But if you totally want to automate as a working professional, then it is difficult. But if you want to do this as a business owner, we have a whole course on building chatbots and building automation to your WhatsApp messages or whatever you could always get there or all you have to do is you will create a knowledge base with all the context about your company.  all the frequently asked questions about your company and you will connect knowledge base of your company with chat GPT using pably and with your friend and all together will make you that automated whatsapp messages and all that knowledge. This is nothing but a proper document with all the information about your company that customer could ask for. That's it. Right?  And there are AI tools for Indian languages. There is something called Vival.ai guys. I'm just placing the link here. I just got my answer from my team and for other messages. There is something called VIZ, right? So the two tools that we use to translate YouTube videos from a language to other language.  Right. Got it. Hi, I'm planning to start a marketing agency. Pawan Kalyan, I think we have an entire course for AI for digital marketers, business owners and freelancers and self-employed people by Leela Sankar. Maybe that will help out. Yeah. Sadhana, if it is BSL, there is no AI tool. ChatGPT is more than enough for you.  Which AI tool would you suggest for image or video generation? Process like for business like who are the team first step in prompt engineering? Stravan, mid journey or Dali in charge equity. These are the two AI tools I recommend for the beginners. And if you need free alternatives for these tools, we are coming up a video where we are showing them free alternatives.  Yeah, I'll also paste that free alternatives for all the paid tools by end of this, you know, masterclass. Yeah.  probably guys if you're watching it right now on a recorded class if you have any you know anything that you didn't get in the links in the comments I'll try and get add this links in the chat box but in the worst case if I miss anything just ask in the comment section and my team community manager will basically reply with the links that you want right cool  Srivastava, I would say Chatsibility is the best tool, right? Yeah. Yeah, I guess that's all I think. Okay, Madhu is asking one more question. Avinash, I've seen that some other channel is teaching about WordPress to build a website for the clients. They're actually charging 60K for the course and getting the clients in and everything. Is it possible to do freedom with AI and not paying that much to them? Please suggest.  Madhu, actually yes, you know my R course is not might not be designed to just get the clients but we covered in AI for business owners course. In AI to business owners course we covered on how to get clients, how to scale your business, how to understand your business and how to build a website everything. So maybe probably by completing AI for business owners course you after applying them and asking questions to us  As a follow-up question, if you have any advanced questions that we didn't answer through in-vehicle calls, I think you could save that 60,000 rupees for that course. You could just get all that in this course itself if you do it in a right way as I just said. Dhanush, I missed your question. Can you just copy-paste that question again? Dhanush, is the course will be helpful for technical content? I think I already answered that question. What is your take on Sora AI becoming dangerous in the future?  7. AI, not just solar or AI. AI is dangerous. AI is going to kill a lot of jobs. AI is going to disrupt so many things and can even create cold wars between countries and companies and stuff like that. AI is very dangerous. In fact, I am writing a whole book right now on how AI could be dangerous and how to be prepared for it.  But then my perspective is, it is what it is. Anytime a new technology comes in, it is going to be dangerous. But AI is like the most dangerous technologies ever, if not handled properly. So together as a humanity, as a government, as a rich companies should be able to come up with a solution where AI is not harming us, but it is actually utilized. The powerful technology in bad hands could be a bad technology.  but a good technology in good hands will only be a good technology. So we together as a humanity should  to prosper and get the abundance of everything we should keep this AI technology whatever it is in good hands how to do that don't we should actually work very hard for it and I'm sure India is not very prepared not India in fact the world is not very prepared but India should prepare a lot for this thing you know hopefully Indian government just like we handle a lot of crisis and disasters in the past will be able to handle it with utmost caution so let's see how that goes.  or any air tool available online as an interpreter to hand interrupter to handle my business. Sridhar Chajjipati, you could do a lot with Chajjipati, you name it, what you need in a business, you need operations, you need HR documentation, you need marketing, you need R&D, you need what else we have, you need sales, every  category that I told in my own company they use ChatGPT in fact my counseling and sales team will use ChatGPT also when they are in the call when client says an objection they'll quickly go to ChatGPT hey this is the context of my company they already have copy pasted scripts and they'll say hey client is asking or having these objections how to handle them and ChatGPT they come up with a proper objection and handling  So, I think ChatGPT is like your CEO, CMO, Chief Product Officer, a lot more. It's all how you use it in an effective way, in an intelligent way, so that you will get the best out of ChatGPT.  Can we have technical prompt engineering course in the gold membership or else we have another membership for it? So launching, yeah. So Dhanush it's a whole new membership. It's not in the gold membership. It's like one, one and a half year course that we're going to do. Yeah, that's like a different membership, different thing. It will be separate on top of this. Voice translation online as an interrupter, not the text mode search.  So one, two, three, three, yeah, see how to create a faceless reader. We have a video on that. Just watch that video in, you know, videos of my company's course, you will be able to get it. Yeah. I think we have given you the tools already, you know,  Regarding this reader see that if you just check the links that I gave here. I think this Wave world or I translate video and audio in any language with fun and AI Yeah, so just these are the links either that you need to understand to be able to answer Thank you. Any any questions guys last one or let's say last two questions last two questions I'll answer and we'll take a break not break. But yeah until next time  Guys, if you are enjoying our whole journey, we would love to get your ratings on Trustpilot if possible. So this is our Trustpilot link.  see if at all you could give a five star rating it will empower my team while they see the difference that okay people who are actually like liking the product that I'm working for that will just impact their moral and their motivation a lot and together as a community we could grow so how many of you are going to give a five star rating on Trustpilot say the word yes say the word yes in the chat box if you're going to give a five star rating for us in the in the Trustpilot right after this  You're sure? We got 45 people saying yes already out of 90 plus people that we have. Are you guys sure on doing it? Yes, 100 stars. Okay, thank you. I would take maybe two weeks time to submit caption projects, but there is a time limit. Sadhana, yes, there is, but then if you have no other option but to postpone, I can totally understand.  I am doing MS in business analytics. I have enrolled in Gold Coast. How will help me in upcoming career? Just one. I think just simply by learning chargivity. You could be 10x better business analytics person. I'm sure it will be helping out just go through the in-depth of chargivity use chargivity every single day for at least 30 minutes. I'm sure by the end of your two years course or whatever it is, you will be  10x better than your peers in your own course. I could challenge you someone with ChatGPT experience in business analytics and someone who don't have any experience in ChatGPT in business analytics will be 10x more powerful at least. I am looking for AI which can video professional software like Premiere Pro PC 7. There is no video yet to be able to do something like Adobe Premiere Pro at faster speed. Adobe is itself trying. So let's see how that  Dhanush, we still not decided on the price for the Technical Phenomenal Engineering course that we are going to launch in 2 to 3 months, but we will let you know.  Sure, Bhargava will be happy to wait for your review. Thank you, Avinash. I'll be doing that. Thank you, Avinash. Even my caption projects are in progress. Do we have any deadline to submit the date? Madhu, six weeks, the point you submitted your first project, six weeks is the timeline you have to complete every single project that we recommend you in six weeks. So try and complete those caption projects as soon as we can.  Okay, I'm working for non-90 professional job, suggest me for career growth. Narayana, just learn ChatGPT and understand how ChatGPT could help you in different ways either by making money as a side business or as a freelancer or in your own career. If you use an AI to enhance your career by ChatGPT and AI tools, I think that will be the better. Okay, yes, I'm just sharing the link again toward, yeah.  would be happy to read all your reviews. I will personally read all your reviews and maybe reply to a couple of them if they are interesting. So give good reviews, 5 star ratings if you love the process and yeah. Cool guys. How can I AI impact in public sector jobs like SPI? See no matter if it is a government or a private  people are going to lose jobs but if it is a government institution your jobs will take a little more time to be lost if you don't upscale when you compare it with public private sector jobs because governments don't want to fire or lay off lot of people and impact their own country's people in my opinion so you will see the impact but 25 percent after that you see 20 not 25 percent maybe one to two years after private sector jobs is what I feel  Cool. Thanks guys. See you next. If you want to again join for the same session, you could always choose to join the Monday session so that so that it will be.  Yeah, your webinar is so powerful and your words changed my working and professional life. Thanks a lot, Jaswant. Thanks a lot. Madhu says thank you so much for your valuable words. Sreerendra says thank you, Avinash. Thanks a lot, guys. Thanks a lot for all the kind words that you're pouring in the chat box. And all the words should be reflected into five-star ratings, right? Anything that we do, people just measure our success by the ratings that we get on an average from all the people that we take.  So if you love just show the love through the review and it will just impact a lot more people in a positive way in the future. You just killed it Avinash. Thanks a lot Dhanush. Thanks Avinash for your wonderful session. Thank you Narayan Babu. I just did my 5 star rating Avinash. Suman, Prasad thanks a lot for just being super quick.  Right cool guys. I'll not take much more of your weekend time. Thanks. I mean, I should be good rating will complete my assignment Sadhana. Thank you. Thanks a lot. Let's just meet again Monday if at all you're interested in attending the same Q&A but with different set of questions from different people in USA and UK or Canada, right? Bye.
4. Critique prompting and tree of thought of prompting - 24th Sep
hey guys hi I'll just open the yeah now you can type it hey guys hey Manoj, Kalyan, Rajkumar, Reshma hi  Hi Manoj, hello. Guys, can you hear any background music from my end? Because there is this Ganesh non-imaginum going on in my apartment complex. It's not audible, right? Okay, great, thank you. No background noise, great, thank you.  So let's just wait for 4-5 people till the time, 3 minutes and we'll start. So guys, is there anyone in the attendees that just joined yesterday? Yes, I am. Okay, Rajkumar. So Rajkumar, did you check out the learning management system? Like the backend, everything? Okay. Did you complete the intro section?  So just complete that and then slowly go into other paths. So Rajkumar, if I may ask, what do you do? What's your background? Are you a software engineer or any other working professional?  Okay, overseas education business. Great. So just start with learning prompting and then for you to, you know, to kind of boost your business, we are even launching the new course very soon in maybe a week, which is called AI for Growth Hackers and Marketers.  So first complete freedom with AI blueprint. So once you complete freedom with AI blueprint, you will understand what is prompting how to talk to charge between a bit. It's very complex and it might seem little boring and stuff like that. But trust me the boredom is worth it because it's so technical people will sleep like asleep sometimes. So just go through it.  And then the moment in a week AI for growth hackers and marketers is out. You could literally use that to get your leads, you know, write emails or you know, create campaigns and stuff like that. So that goes will be a very huge help to boost your business. Okay, great. I'll just announce that we are live in our WhatsApp group.  Okay, cool. Hey everyone, how are you? How are you all doing? People just joined. How are you all doing? Is everything going good?  So, I'll quickly open a Slido questions panel just to start with so that I'll just answer those questions quickly and then come back to the Zoom chat and then even answer those questions. There's only one question asking about digital marketing course which will be live in maximum of seven days. That's it. So, yeah.  I'm good Ankita, how are you? Okay, you said you're good. Thank you Guys can any  Can you guys just see your proficiency if you don't mind so that like so basically what happened is the session today should be hosted by mother for you know, data scientists, but unfortunately, he is not able to join us today because his father has some health emergency. So not anything super like say serious or something, but he just  quickly travel to his hometown, which is Visakhapatnam. So that's the reason he is not able to join us today. Sorry for that inconvenience, but I will make up for it. I have a couple of good things that I could say about prompt engineering. Apart from the things you have already learned, I have two more techniques that you should be able to learn so that your career as a prompt engineer will be a lot better.  Great. So I hope you it isn't okay if I take the session stuff Madhu for now just say yes, if that's okay with you all. Yeah, I hope you guys are not disappointed. I'll just do my best to give as much knowledge as mother would give as for all the data scientists out here data science and developers out here. Great. Thank you. Okay. Hi, I'm from USA. So just guys.  For the 10 minutes, for the first 10 minutes, we'll do the Q&A, and then for the next 40-50 minutes, I'll complete the concepts, and then we'll again come back to Q&A for 10-15 minutes. Great. Good evening, Avinash. Yes, it's fine. Thank you, Sridhar. Okay. Agricultural business development professional working in the pharma sector. Okay. Before, I used to work as a software engineer in India, but at present, I'm also in the USA. Great, Reshma.  Hi, I am in the US with work permit, no job. Can you please give me any leads or quick start of anything? So Bhavya, what are your credentials? Like say, what is your skill set? So accordingly, I could suggest maybe a business model with AI, or maybe something like that. Just say me, what is it for you? Hi Avinash, I'm a student currently pursuing BTEC third year in AI and machine learning branch. Wow, Madhuri. So Madhuri, since you're learning  AI in your college. How is the experience with freedom with AI? Do you think we are taking the knowledge you have already from your college to a next level or you're seeing the same like, you know, nothing, you know, you're just relearning everything. What do you think, Margari? Just want to know some feedback from you. Okay, not forming, working in a... Obviously, I could understand that. Good evening, Avinash. Thank you. Great. Thank you, Krishna.  So just waiting for Madhuri's and Bhavya's answers. Hi Kalpana. Hi, hi. So guys, I'll be taking 10 minutes Q&A to answer all your questions and then we'll go to two things. One, we'll know, we'll discuss about critic prompting.  What is critic prompting and how can you use it in the charge of pity to get the best answers every single time? That's one thing. And then the second thing we're going to discuss today is three of thought prompting. Like both are two different techniques that I feel every prompt engineer in the world should know to read the best benefits from the you know, charity. Okay. I am formal.  clinical SAS programmer and data analyst but can start with anything as per guidelines. So, Bhavya, just, you know, learn about prompt engineering and see  with the existing skill set you have, you know, if you could integrate prompt engineering to basically be a better data analyst or better SAS program or whatever. So, see that. So, if things are boring or little redundant in  the things that you used to do learning prompt engineering. If you could enhance your capability, that would be a one one thing that you could do, right? So imagine you wanted to become a data analyst again. So this time instead of just being a data analyst with no with without using a I just start using a I like, you know, there is this thing called code interpreter in charge of it if like in the change the name recently though.  So you could use that and different data analytic tools to enhance your career and do things little faster. That's one option or you could do build AI chatbots and sell that AI chatbots as service to your you know, as a freelancer consultant and stuff like that. So these are the two options. I think as someone  with a little bit of experience in programming, I think you should do. So two options. Number one is just to be a data analyst or be anything that you did in the past with the help of AI so that your work will be a little faster and more efficient.  when you restart your career or just start AAA which is you just build AI chatbot services to your clients from Upwork or freelancer or let's say Fiverr.com that's it two best options or if you are not interested in technical jobs that you are hating it  We have approximately 20 AI business models exclusively discussed in AI monetization section, right? We're even adding practical videos to it these days apart from the theoretical videos. So maybe just explore all of them and see what's best that suits you. So yeah, that's what I think. Sridhar says, I hope that answered your question, Bhavya.  Sridhar says, I am working as software engineer in Chennai. I want to explore my knowledge in AI. Sridhar, thank you, Sridhar. So guys, just say yes, if you join in a simple call for the first time. Maybe you joined just yesterday, yesterday from the master class. Just say yes. I have joined in Freedom with AI course last July and I don't know if it's specific.  So it's 365 days Manoj. The reason why we give it for 365 days is, you know, if we commit to give  lifetime access to the videos, it's little impossible because we need to update content every single say bi-week, like bi-weekly basis. So it's so impossible for me to maintain this mentors that I pay 4 to 5 lakhs every single month to different mentors in the company that help you guys and maintain the staff, maintain employees, very difficult support staff and stuff like that.  so that's why we're committing it for 365 days and after 365 days we'll see what best we could do for an existing community members to you know extend that or something like that so that's the very reason we're extending it only for one year not for the lifetime people were just doing it for three to six months guys but you know i am doing it for one year yeah  It was absolutely next level and helping me in gaining practical knowledge too from scratch. Thanks a lot, Mundari. Glad a B.Tech third year student who is specializing in AI and machine learning saying this, that you know.  with our courses next level thanks a lot uh madhuri i hope that will add a lot more value in the coming days we're just creating videos on and on from the last month just to make things more practical and i was just hiring mentors interviewing mentors left right center just hide uh one of my mentors like one of the mentors mentors is not my mentors but eo mentors like  Instead of me teaching everything, I could teach marketing, I can teach basic programming, blah blah blah blah, or digital marketing, growth hacking, or prompting.  But I don't want to teach everything. I want to bring experts so that those experts in that niche area would help the best. Just like Madhu helping developers and data scientists, I want to bring different, different people from different areas. Like we have Animesh to teach you design and UI, UX. And we have Madhu to teach you developing, develop for programming and AI for programming and data science.  And now we're bringing in this guy called Leela Shankar who will teach you growth hacking and digital marketing better than me.  Frankly, I don't I don't have no ego than that to say that I am specialized in prompt engineering I'll teach you how to use ChatGPT and how to use prompt prompts and we'll have so many mentors for different different things to cater each Individual with utmost attention. That's what we at freedom with AI is doing these days. So, thank you motherly  but has given prompt prompt answers than chargibility while i was checking about the course availability in the universities so yes so raj kumar bard will definitely give you good answers when it comes to anything that that is like research driven which is browsing driven if your research  is browsing driven you when you ask hey can you name top 10 mobile phones or can you name top 10 universities that would teach AI and ChatGPT or something like that for that browsing feature is needed but has this browsing feature whereas ChatGPT used to have it in the premium plus segment but then they felt giving AI access to internet is very dangerous like  Google is just doing it outright not considering the very negative effects that systems can have but then for some reason, I don't know why Google is doing it but giving access AI access to Internet is little dangerous in my opinion. So that you pretty quickly realize that and it's not giving so yeah, just to sum up your answer anything that comes to researching about particular say  what should I say browsing features anything that comes to that is like browsing from internet Google is like Google part is best but when it comes to researching about a topic say you want to know how a 15 pro bionic chip works or a 14 bionic chip works for Apple or you want to write a YouTube script for your upcoming video.  Chattopadhyay always wins when you compare it with Googlebot. So that's the difference and in fact we have Googlebot versus Chattopadhyay versus you know Microsoft you know thing in a comparison video you could watch that from our previous inner circle videos.  Yeah. Okay. A lot of people just joined yesterday. That's cool. I have joined last week. That's fine. It was absolutely, it was absolutely taking us to the next level and helping me in gaining practical skills from scratch.  Thanks a lot, Madhuri again. The website of LMS is not working. It's been a week since I was facing this issue. I'm like, Pawan Kalyan, I'm so sorry. I'm just writing it down. LMS issue was taken. We are talking with our LMS provider. It's not happening with everyone. It's only happening with select few individuals. Like we have four people or five people out of 500, 600 people or 800 people we have.  So I'll definitely do what's needed. Just give me couple of more days. We're talking with our LMS provider, but they say it's working. We have no issues and you know, whereas this five people in our community is facing huge problem. So I'll just figure it out with my tech team tomorrow. Have little knowledge of graphic designing using Canva and have some knowledge of marketing to watch it.  with and how some books we have a section called AI monetization in which will teach you 20 different ways to make money. So there are multiple different things you could do as a basic designer using can one other.  AI tools like mid journey. So maybe exploring that particular module would give you a very brief idea or very in-depth idea on how to take your career forward in the field of AI. Hi, I have joined your course yesterday. Would you please help me? Where should I start? And what are the next steps? So Jyoti, the first thing you need to do is when you go to the learning management system, which is the back end of the course,  to the course watch this first. So that will be the last one or two courses, right? Just go to that and watch every single video from fun to the last one. Maybe not not the lives but all the videos from the intro you will understand everything what to start way to start what the workflow should like how optimize things everything like that. So yeah, that would be answer.  Understood the difference. Thank you for easy way to understand. Okay. What are the models that happen with that? We have to learn for prompting saying should we do learn all updated models 365 days for any other particular modules or which have updated?  Okay, so Rajkumar to be a prompt engineer, I would recommend first to complete interview the course then freedom with AI blueprint. So freedom with AI blueprint is where you will get very in-depth understanding of like prompt engineering and stuff like that. Then if you're a developer going with AI for developers or stuff like that, you know, so that is one thing and when you go to say what is this?  inner circle modules, which is where you will find all the live call recordings inner circle calls. This is the course where you will find all the live recordings from the day one of this membership starts which is May 24th to till date.  So you'll find all this. So when you go there, if you find any of the title interesting in the last two months, don't go beyond too much just in the last two months. If you find any of the title interesting this go watch it. That's how we need to watch first complete this parallelly watch inner circle attend inner circle calls every single week life. That is like the most important thing like you're paying for it. Just take the best knowledge from my brain and the mentors brain possible when it comes to AI and charge a PT and prompt engineering.  and then just be consuming those live call recordings in the past whenever you have time right step one is to complete intro to the course and freedom with a blueprint step two is to attend this live calls every single week one call per week not two calls. You can attend to cause but minimum is one call and then go what's past in a circle calls in the in a circle call written or module  if any title is most interesting for you. That's it. Sadhana, I'll definitely check, you know, about that.  Kalpana Nair, I will answer Kalpana's questions and directly go into the concept and we will discuss all the questions towards the end again. Amnesh, is there any chance of getting an AI monetization score about web page or website creation without coding? I mean in customer point of view, we can deliver the product up to satisfaction level because I belong to non-coding. I saw the presentation explanation is very good but is there any way of we need to give  Very good, but is there any chance of we need to give coding when we create websites? Can we expect one more post ready to websites? Okay. So Kalpana is asking how to basically sell the websites that was created by 10 web.io to the customers. So Kalpana very simple Kalpana, you will create a website on 10 web.io to your customer.  and you will just say that I use this tool to develop and this is the particular thing you should you don't need to give any code whatsoever because it's a WordPress itself is a mostly no code to write like it's like a drag-and-drop builders and stuff like that. So just give an access to the you know,  to the WordPress website. That's all which is already linked with the domains and stuff. You will not give any code and anything like that. So so that's what that's what you need to do. Just build a website and give the admin access to them once they approve everything point number one point number two is how to sell these websites.  We have multiple videos right now in AI monetization video where we are discussing about creating a Fiverr account and selling your freelancing services from Fiverr account. We have one video so you can quickly search that and sell your 10 web websites from fiverr.com number one option number one.  Option number two is we are launching a course called AI for growth hackers and marketers in maybe a week. It will be very helpful for you to actually sell this website AI website services to you know, new customers or leads. So yeah, so I think that answered your question. If you have anything more specific, you could always ask here and I will be happy to answer.  Hello Avinash. I did these asking hello. You know, I recently joined the class starting from this decision. Would you please guide me on accepting access in the class if I'm missing. So the tea you didn't miss anything. It's just very one thing that we are discussing. You just need to start with intro to the course module, which will be the last to second one. If I'm not wrong intro to the course watch this first. That's the exact module that you guys need to watch. Just give me a second. I'll just show that particular thing to you.  So this is the course guys you need to start with in intro to the course section. You will find in through the course how to optimize your learning experience how to use mega prompts library exploring the power of chat GPT and you will also find intro call one and enter call to which we did back in those days. Just watch this and you will find in this roadmap. You'll find how step-by-step process on consuming this content. Hey everyone. This is a  Right? So you just follow this a particular video and then this just go watch it. So second will will be freedom with AI then everything else will be just like a parallel thing. Yeah, so cool then guys before me starting actual prompting techniques or something. I just wanted to clear one little confusion among prompt engineers, right? So usually  So what is prompt engineering? You know, I know all of you know, what is prompt engineering, but I'll just start what is prompt engineering and also teach you where prompt engineering as a career going. Would you love to know that, you know, because you are coming and learning about AI tools, performance, like, you know, increasing your all that stuff. So, so,  So guys, say yes if you are okay to listening about prompt engineering as a career where it is going and stuff. Yeah, great. Okay, cool. So guys, you all know that prompt engineering is nothing but humans talking to AI in a way that AI understands to get the desired outputs. That's prompt engineering. So now,  See as a prompt engineer, you have two options to you be a prompt engineer firstly you.  are introducing prompt engineering and charge equity to your own career. Maybe you're a lawyer. Maybe you're a doctor content creator developer or you know, video editor, whatever. So basically you are using prompt engineering and generative AI tools to understand how to make your life and work life more productive. That's it.  Right? That's the option number one. So prompt engineering is just not separate career yet. There is an option to be a prompt in this separately. But then the first thing that would read the maximum benefits for you is not to just quit your job and then just be a prompt engineer and apply for the jobs know.  If you're a student, yes, you could do that. But then but you know, as a working professionals or a business owners just try to integrate prompt engineering or this AI tools in your work life and professional life option number one option number two. Okay. Now you are in new like you introduced say prompt engineering or AI tools to your career and you were just completing for a task work in four hours.  The option number two is you have two options again, you could be a separate prompt engineer, right? What is being what is separate prompt engineer two things? Technical prompt engineer and non-technical prompt engineers where?  non-technical people just interact with this AI tools and help team of professionals. What do I mean? Imagine you are prompt engineer that is who is related to content writing and like you can be a head of 10 content writers in a company where you are guiding this manual content writers to use chart GPT or use prompt engineering effectively.  Right or maybe you are a lawyer prompt engineer, right? So you will have 10 lawyers. You will help this lawyer teams to use charge of it effectively. You will be head of prompt. You will just be like a prompt engineer in the law firm. You are a developer, right? You may be okay. Let's let's keep the developers for the second category. That's it.  or you are a design prompt engineer, where you're completely non-technical prompt engineer, you are like, you learned about mid-journey, stable diffusion, DALI, and stuff like that, where your skills is just to design. So instead of you creating designs from the scratch or something like that, you could just be heading a team of 10 designers in a company where you will just teach them how to use AI tools like mid-journey effectively to get things  prominent role in companies to be a non-technical prompt engineer where you not do anything all the work you just guide people in your team to use that particular tool may be making the prompts whenever the team needs may be refining the prompts building the prompts and fine-tuning the prompts and stuff like that. So that is non-technical prompt engineering understood say yes, if you understood what is non-technical prompt engineering, you'll not do anything technical but  everything non-technical like it can be design it can be law it can be doctor it can be anything related to any field but not coding you'll just use different ai tools in the team and make people understand hey we can use this many ai tools to make our workflow better you go to google right now you know out of 10  you know prompt engineering job for our non-technical where you'll not develop anything like you'll not do coding you'll not do anything they'll ask hey we need some mid-journey prompt engineer we need Charjipati prompt engineer to help our content writing team hey we need someone who know prompt engineering so that they could help my law firm with the basic law knowledge maybe not a LLB graduation but basic law knowledge so that to  This lawyer teams they will just build a prompt so that this lawyers will be better same with the doctor same the charted account and same with everything, right? So right now in India, I'm talking about in India you have jobs in prompt engineering to be a non-technical prompt engineer. It is a separate career second one non-technical prompt engineer, right?  So technical prompt engineers are the people who build AI chatbots, technical, like highly coded and sophisticated AI chatbots, building those can be technical prompt engineering or building, you are a data scientist, you know Python, you know data science, you know data architect, you wanted to build a large language model. You are a prompt engineer, but a technical prompt engineer who is building a large language model, something like that. Or maybe you are fine tuning  You know things or you you are using vector embedding and making a large language model better or something like that. So all this are technical prompting or any developer using chat GPT to build new tools not as a user. If you are using chat GPT as a user, you are just prompt engineer prompt engineer. You have prompt engineering missiles, but you are using only for your career. Right? That's a side.  So here being a technical prompt engineer, you are actually building AI tools. For to be a technical prompt engineer, you need two things basic Python knowledge or basic data science knowledge. So having basic Python is more than enough for 90% of building 90% of AI tools, but having a little bit of data science knowledge is always a good idea. Right?  I hope you understood three steps or three different methods or three different ways. To introduce prompt engine into your career step number one method number one just be a non-technical prompt engineer as a separate career.  be a technical prompt engineering that is a separate career. You will just need to have python knowledge and data science knowledge preferably possible python is compulsory. But the second preferable knowledge will be something related to data science because you know building large language models and AI bot sometimes need this technical skills. So this is the road map for the basic knowledge of prompt engineer need to have right now.  and this prompt engineering as a word might change or evolve but the task they do is simple interacting with AI tools either for their career or as a separate career just to help other professionals in their teams. Is it clear guys now when you someone come and ask about a prompt engineering as a career. Can you just guide them? Do you think you can just talk to them for five minutes and explain everything? Are you in that state right now?  Yes, just say me. Yes, everyone. If you don't understand, please say me. No, that's fine. I'll try to explain your specific question a little bit better way. Thanks. Okay, so someone is asking I'm a technical little. Okay, someone is asking about mid-journey guys. We have image prompt engineering or text to image, you know thing here.  Here, where is this? Yeah, here. In this, we have detailed videos of almost all the things, including mid-journey, where we'll have part one, part two, and then walkthroughs, walkthroughs, walkthroughs, a lot of walkthroughs here, right? So maybe mid-genimosity is the place where you need to kind of complete this to understand everything about mid-journey.  Okay guys, so now that you understood what is prompt engineering as a career, let's go understand. Guys, I just need one thing. How are you using ChatGPT on a daily basis? Can anyone say their use cases with ChatGPT right now?  Just say me how may be writing an email or whatever like or writing an article. How are you using Charchipiti on a weekly basis right now? Just say something. I'll just say the way to do the same thing in a better way. Anyone? Are you guys actually, I use it every day.  Okay, so the thing she uses prompt like say ChatGPT for say LinkedIn posts. Okay, creating resume and writing emails. Okay. Let's just take writing article or writing LinkedIn posts. So if we go to ChatGPT right now imagine you're not basically writing a good prompt or whatever say let's just for the time being let's say one lane prompt.  write me a LinkedIn post can everyone see my screen perfect perfectly just say yes write me a LinkedIn post on AI and its future future cover dangers of AI benefits of AI and  how to use AI effectively. Article should have, should have a great hook to grab user's attention, user's attention and then a call to action  in the end to take advantage of their attention or not attention of attention at that point of time act as a act as a professional a professional content writer in  a animation with five years of experience experience. Okay. Okay, so there's usually you know, your prompt should be something like this, you know, it can be a lot better just to be for time being let's imagine this everyone saw the prompt, right?  Can we add something here? Perfect. Is it good enough from to start the conversation with just say yes or no, please. Perfect good. So what I would do is.  so this would give us a bad guys you know what we didn't give us we didn't give  How many words do we need it? But still let's read the paradox of the paradox of progress is double-edged sword scrolling through your feed. You have likely come across count like the countless mentions of artificial intelligence. It's Marvel's of our age, but like every powerful tool is things between promise and pearl with half a decade in a I need I have witnessed in as X.  Ascend what I don't even know what how to sound this whatever but also the shadow it casts the brilliance of AI the darker alleys hardness of AI responsibility is just isn't just a tool it's a transformation our challenge lies in guiding the metamorphosis to ensure a future that's beneficial for all call to action to those blah blah blah it gave us this and then it also gave us few hashtags to use so now  This everyone would do right like any not Tom and Harry would do this. But as a professional prompt engineer, you need to understand here. You need to understand how a large language model works. If you understand how large language model works. This is the first, you know, when start everybody is writing it for the first time. It will not think anything. It will just give the answer in instantly with no reflection if the answer is right.  or wrong now if we ask that if it is something like this hey as a professional content a critique can you can you see me few can you see me all the improvements improvements  that I would do to this article to make it first AI LinkedIn post of all time. Just ignore the spell mistakes and stuff like that. AI will completely understand your spelling mistakes most of the time.  He as a professional content critic certainly as a professional content critic he has some suggestions to elevate the already well-constructed article title refinement the title is intriguing but could be more direct a punchy straightforward title might be a better grab might grab  might better grab attention. Example, the looming promise and looking pearls, engaging visuals, consider attaching whatever. Okay, data and real-world examples, personal touch, share a personal story or experience from your five years in AI niche. This not establishes the credibility but also humanizes the post making it more relatable.  user interaction, formatting, clarification on dangers, sources. When discussing the darker side of AI, it might be beneficial to offer more nuance. For example, instead of job disruption, you could specify shifts in the job landscapes.  sources and further reading tone and language ensure consistency. The tone is professional but occasionally modes like you got you covered can come off as casual either maintain formality throughout or lean in more conversational style. It is essential to be consistent and with a strong conclusion created the significance blah blah feedback group after call to action consider adding a note increasing readers to provide feedback on the article itself blah blah blah. So now what I will do is I'll just say hey,  I love first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, ninth and 10th. I kind of didn't like 11th one asking users for the feedback on the writing style on a LinkedIn post is might not be a little professional. So I kind of liked 1 to 10 points some say engaging visuals. Okay. I don't even consider the second one because  In such a way that we can't ask it to give us the English for officials personal touch user interaction formatting platform sources. I would not even consider eighth one. Loud, so I'll say hey, I love this points. Can you rewrite the entire article above with all this points?  with all these points implemented this time. Kindly don't. Kindly don't miss. Don't miss any points that I am mentioned above. Something like that. So now yeah,  is actually giving critique to AI it will also work for your own articles like maybe you wrote an article you could ask AI to critique it will give you super super constructive criticism but then okay now that you we don't have anything that was written by me but just you know ask AI to write something and then ask itself to critique and then now asking itself to rewrite the entire thing from the points it generated as a critic  Like I love this few points that you gave out of 11 and now I'm asking whatever. So the looming promise and the lurid pearls as we find ourselves on the precipice of a technical revolution, AI, artificial intelligence stands out front and center, but every silver lining has a cloud. In my five years navigating the AI space, I have witnessed firsthand its transformative potential and the challenges it presents.  Here it's saying compelling images and concepts, enhanced efficiency. In the recent study, IBM Watson helped global rank optimization, personalized experience. Ever noticed how Spotify seems to know your music taste?  That's that AI working behind the scenes crafting unique experiences just for you. Can you just see the difference of the quality already here? Like saying personalized content medicine and even fashion air got you covered enhanced efficiency from automating tedious task blah blah blah and then there is no personal touch here. Now, if you see is giving us examples like, you know, you see how the Spotify works and you see and it is giving more data like say 40% increase in efficiency and then  from boundless innovation from self-driving Tesla's to potential in healthcare AI countlessly reshaping our reality and then the lubricant bottles reinforcing bias shifts in job landscapes and navigating AI terrain and blah blah blah. So this is the step one. We already got a better article with better data integration and more personalization than this. But then if you want to take this to the next level you could do something like this. Hey,  Hey, are you sure that you integrated all the points that I mentioned from the feedback? I see couple of them missing. So mostly it will kind of integrate as many say feedback points as we can.  say as we see but sometimes as AI it can do little things now title defilement implemented data implemented but can be enhanced further personal touch missed user interaction implemented formatting implemented implemented the tone was adjusted for consistency implemented and with conclusion implemented you see  As I said couple of things was missing personal touch is missing and then data and real-world examples can be better. So now it is now again rewriting with the points it itself missed. So we are just using the advantage of AI to a next level like we just understood how AI works as a prompt engineers and now we are using it to our advantage.  Now we say consider AI, now Spotify example, self-driving cars, today they are becoming a reality with companies like Tesla at the forefront, and then shifts in the job landscapes, navigating AI terrain, inclusive development by ensuring diverse teams we can mitigate unintended  bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla  So if you see this call to action versus this to those who are crossroads are in is not even a the blah blah blah blah. Let's shape the AI together. This is actually not a call to action that can get you comments and likes it is a call to action that is like so philosophical or stuff like that. But here this call to action is where we are actually giving so many options for the users to stay with us and comment down below. So we see that improvement and then  I see here also data and real-world examples implemented, but I still feel this too could be little more further. I still feel you could do a lot better in this two things. I'll just say this. I apologize for the oversight. Let's dive deeper now five years ago. I sat in a tech con.  or stuck by the presentation on IBM's projects, a debater, and an AI that could engage in live debates with humans. That day my journey with AI began, leading me to revelations and ruminations, whatever. Like you will literally ask AI to avoid all this jargon, and you know, it would do better. The looming promise and the looming promise.  at a clever clinical AI algorithm now assist radiologists by detecting abnormalities in x-rays faster, potentially saving critical minutes in life-threatening situations. Personalized Experience Netflix, which uses AI for the content recommendation, once stated that its algorithm saves them $1 billion a year by reducing customer churn. It's not just about understanding our binge-watching habits, but translating that into a tangible business value.  boundless innovation in agriculture startups like Blue River Technology uses AI blah blah blah. You see now we have a lot more examples. It is the third time when we ask AI that gave us the best answer. So typically if you want to write anything using it three to  four times only when you ask itself thrice or four times is when I see the best results possible. Now, how many of you agree that the for this the fourth iteration of this article is a lot better one than the first one just say yes, if you see the difference. I'll say this entire conversation with you guys.  So now people who say that AI is not human, AI is this, AI is that, AI don't have emotions, you could do, all that is not actually true. You are not guiding AI in a right way, that's all. So I could literally say, can you write the same article  with exactly same example exact same exactly same information but this time in sarcastic say sarcastic in sarcastic tone  Can you write the same? Certainly. Let's take a playful sarcastic spin on the content. The magic wand on the modern age or so they say. AI folks. All right, folks. Remember when you used to believe the technology would magically solve all our problems? Yeah, five years ago, I was one of the naive souls completely floored by IBM's project efficiency.  The wonders of outsourcing our brains. That's right a billion dollars to make sure you will never leave your couch. The all the all-knowing I ever wondered how Netflix just knows to recommend that trashy reality show. You never admit your love. They claim a I save them 1 billion dollars a year. That's right a billion dollars to make sure  make sure you never leave your couch green revolution 2.0 sort of now we have got AI driven robots uh spiritizing here but here is on the speak he weaves cutting chemicals by using 90 plants and robots the unlikely friendships of the sensitive plants and robots the unlikely friendship of the senses but wait there's more the oh oh oh moments  A not so bright idea, Job Calypso, while some folks daydream about AI making their jobs easier, others are just hoping they still have jobs. Upscaling anyone? Seeing isn't believing, be fakes. Do you already see the same exact article, everything remains same, but it is a lot of drama and sarcasm. Can you just see the difference?  If AI don't understand human emotions how in the world AI is on live like in real time it is making things so nice like generating an informational article in sarcastic way, happy way, sad way and all that. Right? I'll post this entire conversation towards and I'll share the entire thing to you so that you could all you know see that.  So now guys, do you think AI don't know human emotions? Yes or no? Do you think AI don't know human emotions? Yes, as Vanilla says, AI has emotions, we should extract it. Just like a therapist extract our emotions by asking, cry, laugh, and all that, we should just extract all these emotions from AI. That's all. That's it. Okay?  Yes, I did a few trials, but this is too good. Okay. Thank you Sadhana. AI has all the emotions like you I could do hundred hundred more things with it. But you know, it might be a little boring if I do so many more things on top of it. So now let's take one more example here. Which is free of thought prompting. So before explaining what is free of okay before going with an example, I'll explain what is free of thought prompting.  So now tree of thought prompting is nothing but taking this critic prompting to next level, right? So you understood what is critic prompting, right? We gave a task it gave us output and we asked it to critic itself like for twice or thrice from all our observations and we got the best answer possible. So that is critic prompting. So now.  What if we have a situation or we have a problem where AI don't we don't want AI to just give one answer but AI we want AI to give multiple answers like say multiple solutions to the same problem. Or thought branches say imagine you want to create a marketing campaign for say  anything like say a marketing campaign for selling your mobile phone. Apple could go to chat GPT and say I released iPhone 15. Could you just say me five marketing campaigns or something like that and ask it to so charge a pretty when you ask a marketing campaign you have water to know you have what usually people do is. Hey, can you give me five marketing campaigns for selling my iPhone? Yes, I'll just do that. Sorry.  I will just close it. And I'll also just paste this prompt. Just give me a second guys. Okay. Okay. I will just share this chart also with you. Okay, as the previous chain of thought, sorry, critic prompting  Chart is here. Like you could just see the whole conversation copy paste or whatever. So now we'll go in going back to your thought. So whenever you say imagine you want marketing campaign, usually people just go to ChatGPT and just say how they say this. Hey, could you just leave me say five marketing strategies to sell my mobile phone or sell my you know, sweatshirt. It will give you five different strategies. But if you just go ask this activity,  in a different way hey give me five marketing strategies but critic yourself on five marketing strategies and just build me five experts who critic five different strategies parallelly and one supports and one you know opposes it and give me the best marketing strategy towards the end from that five expert marketing strategies and stuff like that.  So now what we're doing is we're asking chargibility to create five agents for us. So this five agents will pitch as five different marketing strategies. One agent will come and see this is what you need to do.  you know, generally one guy might say hey to sell your sweatshirts just start Facebook marketing then all his four agents will say hey Facebook marketing is very costly or whatever like they'll just oppose it or few might like support it and stuff like that. So now chat GPT agents will kind of negotiate the marketing strategy themselves before they go to the further one. So now they'll conclude one thing from that discussion. Now the second one comes  says the statement and then the discussion happens and they conclude something. So it happens now we have four or five expert the discussion or statement comes four or five times. Imagine we have five discussions.  and we have five conclusions and then chargeable summarize the entire observation from it and give us the best answer. Can you see conceptually? Can you already see the difference between asking chargeable to give five strategies versus asking ChatGPT to give five agents that would pitch and discuss and finalize one marketing strategy for you. Can you see the difference conceptually only? It's good, right? They say yes or no. What do you think?  or did you guys understand it first or am I just saying something okay just say if you understood say yes if you didn't say no even if one person didn't didn't understand I'll explain it in a better way okay just everyone guys just we have like 50 people just say yes or no please because it's very important and I don't mind if you say no  Okay, a few people were saying it's a great explanation, but few people were saying to repeat. So I'll repeat this. Okay. So traditionally, if you have a requirement like creating marketing strategy or creating a plan or something like that, you would go to chart GPT and say, hey, can I get this? And then it will give you that.  or say can you give me two ways to do that it will give you two ways to do that or five ways to do that if you ask five ways but then it will not give you the best way to do that it will just give you a random five ways to do that you know you have a clothing store you want to promote it you go to chatjpd and ask  you go to charge a pay and ask five ways to promote it. It will give you five different ways. But the goal here is not to extract five different ways to Market your clothing store. But the goal is to get one way that could get the best return on investment for your thing agreed. Krishna, do you agree with me? That's the goal, right? For that reason, what we need to do is we need to ask charge every day. Hey,  I have a clothing store. I'll give you example also don't worry. So I have a clothing store. I need to market it. So now what you need to do is create five agents under you who would give me five different marketing strategies and when every agent when agent a gives me a marketing strategy agent B C D E  should actually discuss the pros and cons and conclude with the statement and this should happen from for five times so that I get five marketing strategies from a b c d and e.  So now every time someone passes a marketing strategy, they'll discuss and they'll conclude something and they do it for five times. So now charge if it will come and talk to you and say that hey from my observation, these are the two ways that you could do or one way to do this. This is how three of thought happens. You are practically asking charge ability to create five marketing strategies. So five marketing strategies to create marketing strategies and  kind of discuss and debate with themselves to get the best answer possible.  And you could do this for coding. You could do this for anything literally even for pretty guys. Imagine you you said you said something and then try to put it would give you an answer or a code back to you and you could just go to try to pretend say hey, can you critique yourself number one or can you see me five different ways to do this and then save me the best way discuss with themselves and all that three of thought prompting you can build and do it for coding also. That's three of thought prompting.  18% might you might understand 20% might not I'll just give you a better kind of say example right now like so just to take this to the better level. So I have a notion document. Yeah.  So now I'm going to charge a video and say imagine a roundtable discussion with three renowned marketing expert. Each expert is tasked with brainstorming the unique marketing strategy for a new eco-friendly product. Okay.  All experts will first write down their initial marketing ideas and then share it with the group. After discussing the initial ideas, each expert will then propose a specific tactic to implement their strategy, sharing it with the group.  If experts realize the strategy or tactic is inviolable at any point, they will leave the discussion. The question is, how would you market a new eco-friendly product to target audience that is not environmentally conscious? Like you're promoting eco-friendly product, but to a market where it's not environmentally conscious. You type enter, and then something like this happens.  Roundtable discussion participant ABC first expert AC is tapping into financial benefits. Discretion market are equal or eco-friendly product by emphasizing its cost saving in the long term eco-friendly products often have durability, which means that users might not have to replace or repair them often expert. We then expert gave an idea right now expert BCS something like that.  Okay now expert we say something expert see say something like everyone now the discussion happens after after the experts share the initial ideas. They should approach with the unique angle. They agree with the blog. So now expert a static long-term savings Calculator this would see static and then you know description one second base.  just a second it just went little okay. I need to improve this prompt it worked in the past I will just show you the other you know  the same problem that I used yesterday. So first what it gave is expert a initial idea and then discussion happens discussion may expert be say something expert see say something and then do their answers expert a replies and then specific tactic. It's like a conclusion and then expert be initial idea  they'll expert expert BCS an initial idea and then expert a say something expert CC something and then expert B replies to a and C and then answer and same with expert C and then after all that AI will give us a conclusion. This is how it should work. But for some reason like it happened in a different way. So I'll just add a new pointer here. After each experts answer,  other two experts needs to say their thoughts on that particular strategy and conclude their discussion on that marketing strategy.  on that marketing strategy. Yeah, so usually this might work. It even gave us the, it gave the character also, like a digital marketing guru known for viral marketing campaigns, Rajan Patel and Marina, someone from USA, India and Europe. Yeah.  So now expert a say something tie the eco-friendly product to a broader cause for movement that resonates the target audience. Even if there isn't directly environmental for instance, if the target audience is values health highlight how eco-friendly products often translate to healthier lifestyles. I love this idea of alignment it with something that they already value it reduces the resistance to change by making the product. This is a smart approach as you're not trying to change their blah blah blah create a series of blah blah blah.  So now after everything.  So all three experts came up with the innovative strategies and they didn't primarily focus on environmental aspect but tied up other values that target focus camera. Whether it's health, status or community, the idea is to make the product resonate to multiple levels increasing example. The tactic shared further solidify the strategies by making them actionable and dynamic. By the end of this discussion, they had multi-pronged approach to making blah, blah, blah.  So now just to first is like you know instead of saying it incoherently tie that product with.  whatever the other target audience already values. It can be health wealth and whatever what this expert BCS is design a branding in a way that it excludes Luxury and exclusivity often audience who are in environmentally conscious are still conscious about status by making the product synonymous with the premium lifestyle. It could attract buyers positioning is the key and then they gave the feedback and rather than say something blah blah blah and then  Even if they aren't environmentally conscious people often have local cause of community they care about. Connect the local eco-friendly product with the local initiatives. For every purchase a portion of a portion goes to a local community project. See a new idea and A say something B say something and Maria say specific task would be  and like this will be a conclusion and a specific tactic would be partner with local businesses or groups to co-host events or campaigns. For example, if a town with the declining Park every purchase helps the fund the parks restoration showing progress updates to customer and making them feel part of the journey. Isn't this actually a good idea guys?  like this is actually a good idea why would you buy from an international company when they don't do anything for a local community but when you say hey we see say  this particular river in your or this particular lake near you is very bad. So what we decided is this is an eco-friendly product that solves this problem. Every time you buy this, 10% of the profits will go to the restoration of this lake. Wouldn't you buy this product versus some similar product which doesn't give any money to your lake?  This actually a good one, right? So this is the difference, right? So do you see already why tree of thought is actually a good idea? Yes, I will give you this prompt also, don't worry. And also to take this to the better level like you could do this also but then sometimes  Like what you need to all you what you can also include is after each experts answer other two experts needs to say that thoughts on that particular strategies. Both positive and negative negative. So when you mention both positive and negative like a I will actually give both positive and negative instead of saying hey good good good for everything. So this can be actually a little  It can actually make the final marketing strategy little bit better. Right, so this prompt I'm just giving to you here.  See, guys, here it's actually going hard. Now, expert A says harness the power of storytelling to build an emotional connection for an audience that isn't environmentally conscious. The key is to appeal to them on a different emotional level, perhaps using a narrative of resilience, community, or improving whatever.  And then this Rajan Malhotra Rajiv Malhotra is saying LSE are really appreciate the idea of storytelling. It's fundamental marketing strategies that can penetrate even to the most effect indifferent audience. The upside of is this and the downside is however might be production cost and ensuring the story doesn't overshadow the product. It is not these guys are giving both negative and positive sides of this.  And even expert C says the challenge will be making sure the story is genuine and resonant with the target audience without coming off as preachy. And then again market expert B comes in and says even if your target audience is environmentally constant definitely care about their wallets and health and now expert a says and the challenge would be clearly demonstrate and qualify this benefits to the consumer.  So, you already see why tree of thought is the best strategy when you want to build a strategy or a plan. So, you could literally do ask chatgpity to give me three ways to market a non-con like eco-friendly product to not in not so environmentally conscious people and it will give you three days, but then would you get this much of insights and then chatgpity talking to chatgpity with the help of their agents and brainstorming and giving you the final answer.  I don't think so. You can take this to the next level by even saying you can even describe who is your expert a expert be an expert see like you say. Here expert expert a is say marketer.  marketer in Europe marketer in India. You can just describe who is your expert also so that charge equity will think and create agent in that perspective. You could say a marketer who dealt with very high-end brands. So whenever you're trying to create a marketing strategy, you know charge equitable think this marketer has some experience with working with high-end brands and do the discussion accordingly.  This type in type in the word bomb if you really love this to strategies and you think it would directly help you out. Just save the word bomb. Before you you before you used headings like the task instruction input, but here you are not using none of this. Can you please say why so Satya?  You should still use them. But the only reason why I'm not using is just to for time being like, you know, typing in task and all that is little headache right now in life should as long as it's possible the more improvements you want the better it is to kind of like ask, you know, do it in the components way only just for the time being I did this. Okay, a lot of bombs here.  Any more? Any more bombs? Did you feel it's a value bomb for you? They literally gave me a bomb emoji. Great guys. So that's it for this session. We discussed critic prompting and chain of thought, tree of thought prompting. So we're trying to create a dedicated module also on this.  Sadhana, that's a very good idea. Developing a prompt database, a Google Doc with all your prompts for different use cases from the experience you using it is always a great idea. You know, you might have used RGBT for 100 different times and you might lose the track of the prompts that work for whatever the case. So, developing a Google Doc with all your prompts is actually a good idea, Sadhana. Thank you. Thank you for mentioning that.  Yes, that's a good idea. So guys we have 10 more minutes before we close down today. Just ask me any questions you have related to anything like anything like that. We have 10 minutes ask any question shoot.  Seems like almost all of you guys have a lot of clarity. I would like to know how AI helps in data science. Very simple sadhana. We have a dedicated course on data science by Madhu. We have two parts and the next week he will come up and close the entire session with one more session. So three parts, nine hours worth of content just for on this topic, which is AI for data scientists.  So when we have 9 hours worth of content, I might not be the best person to say anything about data science just what that 9 hours worth of content and you would know that yourself. Yeah, so guys if you loved this session and then if you are loving this entire thing, it would be great honor and my team especially will be  kind of having great time to reading this reviews, you know more than salaries. I give if they know they are working on a mission that is helping hundreds of people that would mean the world to them. It would be great if you could kind of give us five-star rating on Trust pilot. If you are really enjoying the thing,  just consider giving us spend like four five minutes just create an account and give it to like you know whoever like give it to us that would be the world to my team more than me my team should work so that you will all have the best f of like the best things possible like i am motivated because it's my business my team should be also motivated and they the only way they get motivated  when they see great positive reviews on their work that would directly impact them. If you already gave rating, thanks a lot Sadhana and thanks are the people who gave the rating for people who just starting out. Please consider giving us five-star rating so that my team will be pushed and give you more knowledge and they just work little more harder to give the best output possible for you all. Okay.  Okay, hi an image regarding the subscription link to make the journey was mentioned will email for members didn't get any update for the Google form for the survey done. So Alpho Alphonse, I'm sorry if I'm reading your name wrong. So you will get access to two tools Canva and mid-journey. Sorry Canva and in video not mid-journey. Mid-journey is not a tool that we give. So just two tools will be given to you  Maybe in two three days more if you would says joined it will be given to you in two days. If you join like already in the past just give me your email ID. I'll just cross-check if we already gave you access or not as a newbie does anyone can generate a lead for itivisors in just four to five months. Some but I think you can you already have a tool called Davie. So Davie will be one tool that you could use  to get joined in the past my email is this. Okay. So Alphonse, did you get Canva or you didn't get the Canva also? Alphonso, when did you join Alphonse if I'm not pronouncing your name wrong?  Okay, lastly I want the prompts. I'm unable to copy that in the chat. So Sadhana, I don't know why it is not available. I'll just paste this thing in the group itself. Like I'll just give this entire conversation prompt. Copy the link and I'll just paste it in the WhatsApp group of us. But that would be better.  I'll just do that immediately after this so that I'll just answer a couple of more questions. I like how you build the whatsapp bots using AI. Can you explain it once where can I get this content? So such a there is this thing called a a a you know a is a course where you learn how to build AI chatbots. We have very good expert on this called Madhu Madhu Vamsi. So you could literally consume this entire module and build your own AI chatbot like Wasco and you'll get it.  And also can you explain how to develop an app using AI like I found some prompts for I am development, but they are very basic to build an app using chargeivity that will be helpful for us. So Satya right now, there is no tool as such way to could build an entire app. You could build save website entire website.  10 web.io we have how to build an entire website with 10 web.io in tools arsenal videos in the tools arsenal course you could get that you could also do ui ux using like you know say apps but you can't get an entire app you say i need an app like say  Amazon or a B&B you can't get that you should divide this bigger task of building an entire app into smaller modules and those smaller modules very minute smaller models, maybe 50 to 100 lines of code each and then do that accordingly like how you would how would you do the real-time app development project you need to do that and take help of ChatGPT, but you can't just do it in one go with one goal because it's very complex and AI is not that  super into it in the app development industry yet. It will be soon. Once we once we find it into like that. I will give you that also. I would like to know if there is any upcoming session to know Canva better and use it effectively. Yes, the I'll ask animation to do that animation.  So, basically an image is already using Canva and doing multiple things it can be building thumbnails it can be building so many things, but I will maybe ask an image to do that it does not come to teaching AI yet, but I will just do that.  Mostly. Okay, but I don't want to miss this prompt. Saradhan 100% I'll share it definitely. Hi Avinash, I requested Animesh as well. He mentioned that he will share but I didn't get any cam or any credentials. Viravi, can you just give me your email ID?  I requested in one of the webinar for any AI tools for chemical and mechanical engineers were unable to find any. So, basically this is a very new tool you know for mechanical engineers or something. It is a broader category. There is this website called there is.  there is an AI for that. All the people who missed my previous class would know this, like wouldn't know this but this is a tool where they have a database of 8000 AI tools approximately. So you could literally go browse this 8000 AI tools and just like say mechanical engineer.  This type in mechanical engineering and you will find all the AI tools, interview machines, architectures, or polymath robotics, industrial vehicles, or something like that. So, Alphonse, this would be better search engine than anything like for that chemical engineering.  So, more you cannot just say chemical engineering because obviously what will it do with that you know it can say biological experiments and medical chemistry stimulations problem solving and stuff like that, but if you could give this particular tool a specific use case about mechanical or chemical engineering it would give you the best tools, but here also you are getting best tools, but then yeah.  And then yeah, it's for the people who are using this tool for the first time. I'll just give you a brief introduction. So you go to this particular tool and see your use case your use case can be image generation. So you want an image generation tool to go here and it will give you all the image and Asian tools like there are like hundreds of image edition rules, but then if you want the best out of it, you can just  sorted by most saved. When you sort this whole thing by most saved, you will get most saved ones. So most saved ones are like trending ones. This has no pricing and also photo.ai image generation with which has hundred thousand saves. Thousand saves is nothing but  you could literally save this particular AI tool and then go to the saved options just like Myntra and then just get it. Like if people were saving this tool, they were liking it. If they are liking it, it's good, right? So that's why, you know, sorting it by most saved is always a good option. So I hope I answered your question. Animesh teaches animation. Yeah.  Even I was wondered with his name when I was interviewing him for like in the last like in the last like say it's been two years since he's working for us and when I was interviewing I also had the same thing and I also felt the same. Is there any way is there any way to use mid journey as free subscription Padma Rao? We have little more mid journey alternatives but  We don't, we can't use mid-journey for free. We have mid-journey alternatives. I'll ask someone in my team to share mid-journey alternatives with you. What's the URL? Where can I see the huge AI tools? I'll give you the URL also here. Then the URL of that particular thing is this. There is an AI for that. Can I suggest, can I suggest him AI tool arsenal and courses enough? It has covered everything. Yes.  So, Kalpana what happens is we covered almost all the tools from the research we did like very in-depth research we did and all, but when it comes to chemical and mechanical engineering we might not have gone into a very detailed way.  You know, obviously it is a very niche requirement, right? So we might have not covered it. So that's the reason he might be asking this question here rather than just going into AI tools arsenal. But for 99.9% of you guys, you don't need to go ask us what is the best tool in our, you know, chat or go to AI, any AI search engine, AI tool search engine also.  99.9% of the times for 99.9% of the people you will find the required relevant and the best tool from this particular course called AI tools arsenal where you will find all the tools which is AI tools arsenal here. So this is the particular course where we covered we researched almost 4,000 AI tools to come up with this 325 odd AI tools.  See so we have a lot of vehicles. You can literally go command P or not command P. Sorry. Is it command? Yes command whatever just use this waiter. Oh command. Yes. Yeah, just click.  on command F and then say image and then you'll find all the words or the tools about image generation and then just be cool. Yeah, you can just have all your doubts here about AI tools from there.  Yeah, all the tools are paid or free. Suresh Babu, there are a lot of free tools and there are a lot of paid tools also. So, depending upon your requirements, we covered both paid tools and free alternatives or cheaper alternatives when we don't have free tools on that particular thing. Can you share that excel sheet? Sure. This is already there inside our course in tools arsenal, but here I am already sharing this.  yeah so guys that's it for today any more questions that I missed if I missed just give me yeah anything that  any persistent question I missed if you have any say urgent question that I missed somehow we have 30 seconds just copy paste your question and we can discuss about that.  Okay, I think there are no questions. I answered most of you guys, most of your questions. If I missed anything, I can answer your questions on Monday morning, 6.30. Monday morning, 6.30, we have, which is like tomorrow morning, 6.30, we have our next session. So just sleep well. If you want to attend the same class again for more clarity, you can, or you can just skip it.  charge if it is subscription less, you know, we only have one such charge if it is subscription, which is charge if it is plus $20 per month. Okay guys. I hope I answered all your questions and you fall. I think you found this helpful. If at all you did and you didn't give us five-star rating on trust while you just consider giving us if you feel we are giving the best possible out there. If not, that's fine. We understand. Okay.  Yeah, May Lady Madhuri, I saved it. Getting done. Thank you, Alphonse. Great, guys. Thanks. Thanks a lot. Bye-bye. Have a great evening, great Sunday evening. Close your weekend. Get into Monday mode. Bye-bye.
5. Critique prompting and tree of thought of prompting - 25th Sep
	Hey guys. Hi. Hi. How are you all doing? And where are you guys joining from? Just two things. How are you and where are you joining from? Good morning for the people in India. Good evening for the people in USA and Canada, of course.  Okay. Hey Mukesh. Hi Sarjanya. Sarjanya, how is everything in Canada right now? Like, is everything fine for a normal Indian citizen right there? Okay, cool. Thank you. Rest are the people  Do we only have few people here? Yeah, so the people who just joined, I was just asking, how are you and where are you joining from?  Good morning, good morning Satyadev. People who are joining from India, did you, like, you prefer early morning calls, rather than, you know, the night call, like the evening calls that we had, you know, on the Saturday? Just curious to know your, like, you know, schedules. Okay, got it.  That's fine, like you can join anything. Is there anyone that's joining for the second time? Yesterday also we had a call, right, in the evening. So anyone joining for the second time? Say yes if you're joining for the second time. Okay, cool. Oh, we have a few people joining from yesterday's call also. Okay.  So guys, for the people who are joining in yesterday's call, I just want to make one thing clear. We'll be discussing the same topics, same examples and everything. Because obviously, you know, we're conducting it twice to satisfy our time zones. Like, you know, few people were newest. So that's the only reason we're doing it twice. It's not any continuation or anything on top of it. So just wanted to make it clear. Every week we'll have two classes. One will be  Only one topic will be discussed in both of the calls. Okay, by the way guys, I just wanted to  Say one thing, today the call is supposed to happen by Madhu, but unfortunately he is not available today because of a little family emergency, health emergency he has. So he needs to rush to his hometown.  So that's the reason Madhu is not available today. I'll be taking up the call and I'll be teaching about few prompting techniques that every prompt engineer in the world should know to get the best out of ChatGPT. So I hope you don't mind. Is it okay if I take the call instead of Madhu this week? Say yes if that's fine with you guys.  Okay, good and mother will be continuing that data science part 3 the next week, you know the next Saturday the coming Saturday. Okay, cool guys. So so if they didn't if there is any question one or two questions, I will be happy to answer them. Like I'll just go to the Slido once and see if we have any questions here.  Yeah, we have a few questions in Slido. So I'll just first answer them. And in the meantime, if you guys who are watching live in the chat box have any questions, please feel free to answer them. I'm like, please feel free to ask them. So the first question is from anonymous, how to understand and implement MangaProm? Is there any specific course that has detailed explanation? So we have, there is,  Yeah, so we have a separate video on prompt format in our course. So which is I'll just show you. If you go to freedom with AI blueprint. We have this. Prompt format. In which you'll basically understand  basically almost how a format should look like and stuff like that so that's where you'll get the prompt format this is where we'll be teaching teaching you about how a mega prompt should be structured in a way and almost all the prompts in our you know AI sorry prompt library is  But mega prompt, yes, it is a mega prompt. So if you see, if you go to any of these prompts in this particular module, we will be discussing about 500 prompts and 800 pages in a Google Doc. So all of them are like perfectly mega prompts.  okay so i think uh you're watching this 30-40 minutes video will be most probably helpful for you see you see this so topic target audience purpose context and stuff like that the whole thing is a mega prompt here so some are mega change the chain of thought prompting or fewer just mega prompts fewer mega  COT prompts which are chain of thought prompts and stuff like that. So yeah, so for examples, you can refer this sheet for people that were like for the people who want to learn the concept of building a mega prompt. What's the template look? What's the template and all you could just refer to that particular video which I showed you in like the last couple of minutes. So that's one thing and I'll just  to answer other strider questions. How to add this AI skills into SME to get shortlisted as a software developer? Can we get global recognition? So basically we're trying to get you know maybe certification from you know some we're just trying to tie up with some college or something. For now we don't have any tie-ups or something because I feel  If we have brand ourselves, we don't need any tie-ups. We're trying to be one of the world's biggest AI tech brands. Hopefully soon we'll reach this. So yeah, and then just adding that you are a certified prompt in it's a to charge a PT and prompt engineers something like that would be just enough. And if they ask you will provide you certifications in maybe a month or two with all the capstone projects.  So how this capstone projects thing work is will give you like say 15 20 options of capstone projects. You could just do any of those five things like, you know, we'll give you 15 or 20 capstone projects depending upon your area or skill of expertise. This shows five.  capstone projects and then just do them on submitters and then we'll see how many calls you attended and how many things you I mean like how many videos you saw and if we are satisfied with the number we'll just give you the certificate we'll give you the criteria and all maybe in a month  since everyone joined just in a just few months back we just want you to spend good amount of time so that when you say that you are a certified front-end engineer and do this capstone projects you will be in a best state to do the project as well as to answer any questions that you might face in the end of use or anything like that so I hope that answered your question and is it possible to get a pdf or transcription for courses single for a quick referral being a working professional finding hard time to watch videos hope you understand  So yeah, I think I can give you the PPTs in the links of every bio. I'll just try and ask my team if that's possible. So I just tried it. Say PPTs of all videos. But then try and spend like 30 minutes at least a day and one hour in the weekends and it's good.  even that is good enough because we'll be spending two plus two and a half four four and a half hours per week spending four and a half hours week would be like you would be completing like say two courses a month sorry two courses are yeah exactly a week so i feel try and do that instead of just reading the transcription sometimes if possible that would be a little more clear for clearer for you  Okay, when are you going to start bts model? I think I already had one video of bts module Uh, we'll we'll we'll keep adding more and more videos to the bts first. My goal is to first completely Give you the best content possible for everything else first then come to the bts because that's like bts is luxury right like it's it's like  Whereas when it comes to being a prompt engineer, giving you the growth hacking, AI for marketers, AI for UI, UX, AI for students, all these three courses that we are working on right now on AI for developers, we're enhancing it even more further. So all these are like needs. So first we'll fulfill the needs and then we'll come to the BTS part. We'll just add in, we just added one video, but we'll add more and more videos.  Do you have any plan to get work from clients and distribute work to Chinese for real-time experience or by paying them? Yeah, I'm actually trying to do that. Maybe not distributing the work or hiring you guys as freelancers but I definitely have plans like people were asking me if I have like there are few YouTube channels that approached me asking me they need a prompt engineer.  right so I was trying to kind of find few of the people in our own inner circle like in our you know community to kind of place them so people who are staying in Hyderabad there is an opportunity for you guys so I'll just very soon announce that in the group itself so you can just apply for the job and go from there so yeah I think I answered all the questions from you know like from the Slido and I'll just come to this part  in the chat. Okay. Then this is going to be a repetition of yesterday's class, right? Yes, Rajesh, it's just a repetition of yesterday's class. Even yesterday I told you the same. It will be just same topic  twice every week so you could just add in one or if you feel like okay i might miss something uh like i might not like if you didn't understand particular point you wanted to revise and take the best out of me by adding twice you could do that also no problem uh how to make youtube or instagram post to reach max people with basics or using any ai  I think AI tech, I discussed this briefly last time also, there are no AI tools to make things viral overall. It's your strategy and it's your content that takes you viral. To write your Instagram post, yes, you can make it viral by adding great hooks and providing good values, but  Yeah. Rajesh, yes. Yesterday's call was also, it was conducted at 8 o'clock in the morning. It was still 10 o'clock in the night. So, it was only conducted by myself. It was not by Madhu. You didn't miss anything. So, yeah. Yeah. So, for online to get you, as I told you the last time, it's the same answer again. Just ask Charjeeputji to write great scripts and record those videos in good way.  and you will go viral. Value makes you viral. No strategy or say just because you used an AI tool, there is no AI tool that can make your Instagram post viral. There are like tools to do editing of your Instagram reels, to write scripts of Instagram reels and different things. How effectively you use each tool will be result in how viral you go. That's all.  yeah that's the only thing and we'll kind of try and write a chat script using a good script like to take your Instagram post viral to an end so that it's a part of it if if need if needed I'll just do that for you so that it will be a good illustration for you to how to write an Instagram post such in such a way that it can we can go viral basically I was trying okay  Get the same basically. I'm from training background used to trying Java oracle and some stuff also in technical delivery operations. I'm a gold plan What do you mean by placement you want people to be placed in our company or you want to be placed You know in some company. Can you just say? I'm like be little clear kids if possible and  Okay, you want a career opportunity in my company or in any of my company, like any of the companies that I know, like, okay, sure, I'll let you know. So, what do you want to do? Like, do you want to train or do you want to just be a Java developer or something like that? Okay. Santosh is asking me, can you tell me about AI tools for hustle and marketing? You're telling for making the content viral, so please showcase us to use case.  Okay, sure, Shantush, the next thing I'll do that for you. Cool, good. So maybe on my LinkedIn, if you could message me with your CV, that will be handy and I would be recommending you if there is any opportunity, I'll just give it, you know, show it to you, like say, recommend it to you. Okay, guys, enough for the questions. We'll just go to the concepts right away.  So guys will be discussing about two things today. One is critic prompting. What is critic prompting and how to use it effectively to three of thought prompting? How to what is three of thought prompting and how to use it effectively. These are the two concepts that we're going to discuss. But before going to that topic, I see there is little gist of confusion when it comes to being a prompt engineer, right? Like, you know,  like the future of prompt engineering like people are little confused am I learning it for like say to make more money or to make more time or what is it like you know we might we might have little bit of iota of doubt on kind of what is this what is the future of prompt engineering and all  Do you guys have it? Should I clearly explain you the future of prompt engineering and prompt engineers? Just say yes. If you want me to say that or discuss about that for like say two three minutes before moving into the concept say yes. Only two. Okay. Anyone else that whenever at least 50% of you guys say yes, I'll just say that.  I want this to be engaging guys. It's either the late night for people in US and Canada or very early in the morning for people in you know, Hyderabad or you know, India. Okay, cool. I'll just say it.  So guys to become a prompt engineer you we have like say three different ways to utilize this prompt engineering skills upon your requirement you could choose any one or two ways parallelly. So the first method of utilizing this prompt engineering skills you are learning in this course is to implement this prompt engineering skills in your own work life in your own professional life, right? It can be say  You know, you're a developer, you can use prompt engineering and ChatGPT to, you know, enhance your productivity. If you're a content writer, you can reduce your workload by 80% if you use ChatGPT in a perfect way to write content. So, you know,  You're enhancing your career. You're a developer. You're an editor. You are a VFX artist who use who is using graphic designs from mid-journey, taking inspirations from mid-journey and stuff like that. So essentially the first method to use prompt engineering skills is to make your work life a lot better by decreasing your time and increasing quality of work also parallelly. Got it? Say yes if you understood it.  In your own career, you don't need to do anything else. In your own career, whatever you're doing, you can be a lawyer, you can be a doctor, you can be anything. So even as a doctor, you can actually ask ChatGPT to explain a complex disease in a simple terms to your patient.  Right? Maybe you could not comprehend sometimes to explain things to patient in a better way. Maybe just before patient comes to you, just kind of type in in ChatGPT and ask you to explain in a good terms. So it will definitely give you that. So basically, whatever the career you're you are in, there is 100% agree that you could integrate this prompt and sharing skills and make the best out of your career to make more quality work while saving a lot of time, both at a time which is very rare.  you know very rare that's method number one method number two is you can be a non-technical prompt engineer so what is non-technical prompt engineer as a separate career right the first method me you are not uh making it as a separate carrier in your own career you're using prompt engineering to make your life better but in the second method what you're doing is you are becoming a non-technical prompt engineer because  You don't like being into programming or you don't know programming. Either you don't like it or you don't know it. So you just wanted to be sticking to that non-technical prompt engineering. If you're not a programmer, you can be a non-technical prompt engineer. So what is non-technical prompt engineering? So essentially there are a lot of companies that need prompt  trying not trying, but just to consult the teams on using chat GPT or other AI tools in a better way like there are like content writing teams already in this like very big companies right. So, what they essentially do is they hire one content writer who knows prompt engineering or maybe a professional prompt engineering who know content writing a bit.  right they will hide that particular prompt in there and give access to all this content writers give give you as an access to all the content writers. So this content writers will come and ask you. Hey, I have this requirement. Can you give me a prompt or I have this from can you make it better because you know, this prompt is giving me a very robotic text or I have this requirement. Can you suggest a tool apart from ChatGPT for this requirement?  right so you will be you know you will be as a resource for content writers for lawyers doctors or people who are into image generation like say vfx artists interior designers logo designers or something like that so companies are right now hiring professional prompt not professional non-technical prompt engineers just to you know  consult their existing teams. For our company it is very easier to hire one professional prompt engineer and we make them as a consultant for their teams rather than upskilling all of them with prompt engineering, right? So it's a no-brainer for them. So and they don't need everyone to learn prompt engineer and then just make it little ruckus and all that. If they have a professional prompt engineer,  The professional prompt engine will set a standard operating procedures to use AI in a better way. Got it? How many of you understood the second method? Say yes. If not, I'll just explain in another way. Just say yes if you understood both the methods in the chat box. Yeah.  Okay. Got it. Is there anyone that did understand be frank and say no, I completely agree. I'm like, I completely understand if there is anyone who says no, I'll explain the concept today. No. Okay, cool. So since there is no nose, I'll get in the concept, right? The first method is introducing prompting them into your own career. The second method is okay. You're you're either being taking  let's say you are basically taking prompt engineering as a separate career option and working in a company along with other working professionals to help them use AI tools in an efficient way saying them hey this is the prompt you need to enter for this for that and all so prompt engineering salaries in India are ranging right now between 10 to 20 30 lakhs also like if you go to google or mercury and enter prompt engineering out of  say 10 I'm seeing at least on an average 10 lakhs like minimum of 10 lakh rupees per month that's what I'm seeing right now like I particularly have people in my own company that I'm paying that much money for for prompt agents right that's one thing and then what's the third method third method is you are a developer you know Python  little in depth and you know data science like generally on just like you know on the surface level. So, you can be a technical prompt engineer or LLM builder or something like that you know LLM developer or something like. Things might change, but what you are doing essentially is you are taking the prompt engineering skills you have already learned and you are being technical prompt engineer.  where you are actually building AI tools not using them the first and second case is just about using them as a user. But in the second case is like you are developing or building this large language models or AI tools or AI chatbots or whatever anything that is related to building AI tools. It's it's a technical prompt engineering, right?  And then even this technical prompt engineer you have basic technical prompt engineering where you just need to know little bit of Python and the surface level of the data science, which is not super needed. But if if you have it, it's good where you are building AI tools and AI chat bots, right? So you don't have mission learning or say data architect experience or anything like that for the first case in technical prompt engineering.  in the second case of technical prompting training where you're building large language models like basically building something like ChatGPT you should be like super into data science python is okay but data science is very much needed like you are actually working in a team to build like heavy large language models like ChatGPT or google bot right so these are the  three methods in the third method you have two options basic technical prompt engineering where you will kind of build ai tools and stuff like that and make a lot of money by being a freelancer or consultant also in the second case you're actually a developer large language model developer or like you do little bit of advanced fine tuning and vector embedding and stuff like that so for all the people like  for like say everyone in this category we have something to learn from from this whole freedom with AI you know course right so is it clear guys?  Now, do you think you can understand the future of prompt engineering to a 20-year-old or 10-year-old for like in couple of minutes? If they ask what is prompt engineering and what is the future of it, can you all do that? Being a professional prompt engineer or aspiring to be professional prompt engineers, can you explain that to a 12 or 15-year-old right now?  Maybe your cousin who is now studying VTEC second year. Do you think you could explain this whole thing to him or her? No, 10 lakhs per, not month, it's 10 lakhs per annum, sorry. Do you know what's the salary for ground engineers? So guys, say something, yes or no.  You guys there? Hello? I can only see Achyut. No one else? Sanjanya gets AI Tech Online into Satyadev. That's it? You only have five people in the room?  Should we take attendance now? Okay. Did you guys understand?  like say everything that I told till now if you have any doubts or if you didn't understand please just ask right away so that I could explain you might not agree with me or whatever like whatever the case is just ask away so that we'll be on the same page I could explain things in a better way if you didn't or maybe if you don't agree with me just be frank and safe with me so that we can discuss have a quality discussion and then come up to a point everyone agrees with me right  Okay, cool. Then let's move. Let's move forward. So guys the first concept we're first concept. We're going to discuss today's critique prompting. So critique prompting is nothing but asking AI to critique itself or asking AI to critique on something so that it will give the feedback and then integrate that feedback into the next answer. So now just to say show you  the thing exactly let's just go to chart GPT now and I'll show you one example okay just give me a second guys my chart GPT plus got expired I guess just  Just a second guys, it's almost done. OTP stage. It's open even yesterday in the night. I don't know how. Okay.  Okay, it's working right now. So, someone here asked you to write me an Instagram reel. Let's imagine where we want to kind of create a script for Instagram reel. I'll just, so AI Online Tech Aid U, what are the kind of topics you do reels or Instagram content on? Can you just say me that so that I could create an Instagram reel for you and give it to you, a sample one?  Just okay. Let's consider you're writing the Instagram real script on the topic AI or yeah, I think AI is good enough or I'll just wait for your answer. Okay. Hey.  Hey, as a professional short video script writer, can you write me an Instagram real script on the topic of AI?  and it's dangerous the real will be seen by students students students who are 25 or less  that's the context we gave it's the task and the real should be less than say 100 words real should be script should be very snappy the first  It should have a hook to start with. And then. Call to action at the end. Make it so good that. It can go wild. Right? So guys, do you think this is a good start?  for the prompt like I can make it so much more better, but this is good enough start. So do you guys agree? That I could just go on to this. Just say yes, if I just if you just feel it's okay. Yeah, cool.  So this is a prompt, I'll just give it to ChatGPT and wait for the answer. Hey, as a professional short video script writer, can you write me an Instagram deal script on the topic AI and its changes? And then now Instagram deal script, basically it's writing, you think AI is able to, about chatbots and games? Think again. Uncontrolled AI invade privacy, make irreversible decisions and even cause job losses. But you can shape the future.  learn question, you know, be the change that AI needs. Do you think it's a good enough, you know, script? I feel it's not good enough script. So what I'll do is, as a professional critique, can you list down, list down  all the improvements from the above script. So now, AI wrote an article  and it is actually critiquing itself. So see that so the reason why we're doing this critic thing is  Know how AI works is whenever you give a task. It will only think once to give the answer but then while critiquing it will reflect on its own answers and then just evaluate everything as a professional critique. So once that happens, you can take those points and make it little better. Right and now  Yeah. So now we got a lot of critic points about opening hook, about narrative base, about the content, about engagement. You know, it's saying uncontrolled AI is a strong phrase that can generate fear while it's essential to communicate risk, but it's equally crucial to ensure it doesn't spread undue panic, consider refreezing or providing context to ensure clarity. The mention of irreversible decisions is somewhat vague,  specifying what kind of decisions are showcasing an example might add clarity. So now what I'll say is so basically it itself gave us the revised script. We don't even ask need to ask it as revised script. Hey, I feel this is good. But too short. All right, it's  So now it is, so what it did is it gave us the feedback and it in itself integrated the feedback and rewrote the entire thing. You see, without carefully handling AI can overstep boundaries and reshape jobs. It's your tech era, navigate it wisely. Learn, question, innovate, be AI aware. Guard the future.  know it is little better than say the first this one right be but you can shape the future look question and be the be the change AI needs no it's very basic but the second one is little better and now the third one is even more better think AI is about friendly chatbots and cool games dive deeper  And then AI's potential is limitless, from healthcare marvels to creating art, but there is a flip side. A quick one. Narrative. Unchecked AI can overstep privacy, lead to biased decisions, even reshape our job market in ways we might not even be ready for. But here is the trick.  It's not just the tech experts who will guide AI's journey, it's you. Dive into the AI world, understand it, mold it, make it work for humanity, not against. Take charge, learn, question, innovate, and make AI experts, blah, blah, blah. So, now if you see, the third version is even more better. So, now I'll just ask it to do the critiquing again.  Hey as a professional critique you list on all the improvements from the above script. The first it is giving us the script it gave us. And now it is critiquing.  So openings in statement it is saying, it is little say repetitive from the earlier script, it might be better to introduce a new perspective or angle of variety. Generalization AI's potential is limitless is a broad statement. Specificity can sometimes be more compelling than general claims.  It is slow and it talks about but blah blah blah blah. So now it creating itself and gave us now giving us a better output.  AI makes playlists, beat games, even drive cars. But it's so much more. From healthcare miracles to redefining creativity, AI is revolutionizing our world. Yet, there are shadows. Unchecked, it can erode our privacy, favors biases, and redefine our careers in unforeseen ways.  You're not just a spectator. You are the new generation that will drive AI ethically. Embrace it, shape it, ensure it's a tool of progress, not a regression. Rise, learn, innovate. Be the beacon in AI's journeys forward. Hashtag, guard the future. Don't you guys think the last version, which is the revised version, the third version is better than the first version after all the, you know, critiquing that we asked AI to do?  Just say yes, if you agree with me if you feel that the third version is a lot better than the first version, which is basically very small and useless. Is the first version we got whereas the last but it's a lot better and you know, AI is not just giving the basic questions. It's even giving the opening visual transition and you know all that so which is cool, right?  yeah the third version is good so maybe if you have time and you want to make it like to next level you can just say what can i do further to make this script even better  So there is new future the feature where it is actually giving us two responses at a time. You can just choose one and then go it from go forward from it.  We got two answers guys is a very new future for me also. So it is in the first response. The response is in a way. It's directly going and giving us like say all the feedback and then gave us the modified script here. It gave the first refined script and then additional suggestions. And then if we ask it will give us whatever so you could just choose one out of the both options and then just go it from there.  So, modified script, AI isn't just a tech buzzword, it's crafting our tomorrow. From painting masterpieces to healing the sick, its touch is everywhere, but the shadows loom. Without the moral compass, AI might trespass our privacy, echo biases, and blur career paths. But who holds the compass?  Look into the mirror. Will you be the passive observer observer or guiding hand? Dive in change norms steal AI consciousness. The future isn't just written. It's coded. Are you in? Hashtag got the future. Can you just see this guys? Do you think it's little better than the third version again? Just say if you think this is the better better one.  Yes, I will give you this prompt like whole conversation in the group once the call is done. Yeah. So this is why you need to kind of ask AI itself to kind of critique us and take it forward. And this doesn't only work for content writers guys. I'm just giving you example for content writers, but this will work.  inside ChatGPT, whatever you do, you could just do this. You can do coding, you know, you can get a code and ask ChatGPT. Hey, can you just critique yourself on how to give a better code than you already gave as a professional developer with 18 years of experience in this particular JavaScript industry. It will actually come up with eight different things that it would have been it could it could have done to be a better coder or to give a better code.  Trust me. This will work wonders for you even as a coder like you could just test it out and let me know your experience as a coder. Trust me. This is going to be so so so nice. Okay, so that's what I think is about critic prompting guys. How many of you think they're learning something new? Yeah, how many of you think they're learning something new?  Yeah. Okay, cool. Thank you. It's good. Great. And now to take it a little forward, what we can do is we can talk about free of thought prompting.  Have you guys ever heard of Tree of Thought Prompting? Just say yes if you heard this word called Tree of Thought Prompting in the past. Just say yes or no. If everyone says no, I'll understand. Okay, I should start from the basics. Okay, great. Seems like no one like have heard about it. So essentially what is Tree of Thought Prompting is  you are giving AI a requirement, right? This might not work for article writing or stuff like that, but you want AI to plan something.  You want a I to kind of give you a strategy something like that, you know a marketing strategy or a code strategy or you want a plan for you know, say event or something like that. So this works good for plans and strategies, but essentially what it does is So I'll just show you one thing. I'll just explain you.  50% will be understood and 50% needs an example. I'll give you an example also. So don't worry on this. So what happens here is so imagine you need a marketing strategy to sell your pen. So you invented a great pen and you want a marketing strategy to market this pen or maybe you have a tech company or online training company and you want a marketing strategy for your online educational company.  What do you essentially do in Charjeepeti to get the marketing strategies is this, you go to Charjeepeti and say, hey, I own an online educational company that gives IICS training, a developer's training or something. Can you give me five ways to market my institute, training institute? So Charjeepeti will give you all the five ways and then you know, it will just do that. But the problem here is,  You are asking five different strategies from charge of it. Not to actually get five just to get one best strategy that you could implement. How about you asking charge of it for the best strategy itself? It will give you.  But then how ChatGPT works is it will only think once for one task. But if you make ChatGPT thing thrice or four or five times before it gets the concluded answer, how would that be? It will be obviously better right? Like if ChatGPT thing five times before concluding an answer for you before giving you a plan or marketing strategy. Don't you think it's a good idea? Just say yes.  So once, generally to take any decisions in our own life, if we kind of say, do think about the same thing for four or five times, we will kind of take good quality decisions most of the time, rather than just going in a flow and taking instantaneous decisions that doesn't actually make sense in the future. So in a similar way, what we're asking Charjapati now right to do is, hey,  I need a marketing strategy to promote my online educational Institute, right? Create for marketing experts under you and ask marketing experts to discuss four different strategies among themselves and then conclude an answer. So the first marketing strategy strategies give one marketing strategy and the rest three should say pros and cons of it.  And similarly for the marketing strategies to three four whenever one marketing strategies comes and come and say one idea everyone else should critique and then conclude with the conclusion and you do this for four times and then give me a solid solid conclusion from the discussion all this for marketing strategies would have. You know, do you already see what's going on here? We are asking charge a pretty to get four  agents first for marketing strategies or  for marketing strategies or slash agents for us. So they will critique between themselves by creating marketing strategies and then give up give us the right answer. Thereby they're asking ChatGPT to think for time for giving you an answer to get the quality discussion and quality decision just like a boardroom meeting to talk about any potential problems in the company.  like a roundtable discussions people doing companies. Do you already see using ChatGPT in a better extent? We're just a replicator real-world scenario with AI agents. So what it is an agent agent is no one but someone under the main AI to do the task so that the main AI can think both in perspective of main AI and also the employee  below the main AI which is AI agent. So AI agent is nothing but a virtual employee for AI. That's it. You can have hundreds of them. And I'll give you I'll show you this with a small example. Right?  So this is the problem guys. I'm saying imagine a roundtable discussion with three renowned marketing experts. Each expert is tasked with brainstorming a unique marketing strategy for a new eco-friendly product. Okay, all X all experts will first write down their initial marketing idea and then share it with the group. Okay.  After discussing the the initial ideas each experts will propose a specific tactic to implement the strategy and sharing share it with the group. If any experts realize the strategy or tactic isn't valuable at any point they will leave the discussion. The question is how would you market a new eco-friendly product to target audience that is not environmentally conscious? You're selling  you know, you know, say eco-friendly product but to people who don't care about being eco-friendly how to do that. So now we even give one more thing saying after each experts answers other two experts needs to see their thoughts on that particular strategy both positive and negative. Right? And and and conclude the discussion on that  on on that particular marketing strategy proposed. Okay, do you think it's already a good prompt rather than just asking charge of a tea for like five different marketing or three different marketing strategies for this particular problem statement? Cs.  the things that okay anyways let us go. So, round table discussion marketing an eco-friendly product to a non-environmentally conscious audience expert.  Diana Brand Storyteller, focus on intangible benefits of the products rather than just the environmental angle. For consumers who aren't necessarily environmentally motivated, we need to highlight what's in it for them immediately, whether it's cost-saving, durability or another benefit, another direct benefit, make that the primary selling point.  Expert B says I agree with the approach of touching focusing on immediate benefits. This could capture attention quickly, especially in the online ads where you have limited time negative point. We run the risk of delegating those who are environmentally conscious by not showcasing the aspect of that particular product. No expert sees feedback spot on every consumer wants to know what's in it for me and this approach answers directly.  Negative, if we focus only on the tangible benefits, are we losing an opportunity to educate and potentially turn these customers into eco-friendly enthusiasts? And then specific task, the unleveraged customer testimonials sharing their direct benefits from using the product, whether it's saving or credit outlasting competitors. So basically, we got expert feedback on this particular thing.  And then we got a specific tactic to actually implement that particular thing. Right. So now expert B says initial marketing idea utilize influencers who resonate with target audience but aren't necessarily known for environmental causes. People trust those they admire by collaborating with influencers not in the eco-friendly sphere. We can certainly introduce the products eco-friendly benefits influencers can sway their audience effectively by choosing those whatever relying on the outside whatever  And then great idea and now negative is relying on influences comes with its risks. Their authenticity is key. If they don't truly resonate with the product, it can backfire.  And then expert sees also say something when expert we say something other two experts are seeing our feedback and then they're giving a specific tactic to kind of give us the entire thing and then expert sees organized local community events where the product can be showcased and experienced firsthand people believe what they can see untouched hosting events where consumers can interact with the product directly can lead to more genuine interest.  events can be direct interaction which often this isn't stronger connection to the product and then negative is the scale of events is limited. We need to we need a bigger strategy for a large audience. So Expert B says something positive the cost of organized events can be high. We need to ensure a good ROAS like that. So so which idea is better among three  strategies make these three experts debate between themselves and at the end all of them should agree on one single strategy  that we can implement immediately. Yes, if you see everyone gave us few few things one says, let's just only discuss about non eco-friendly way and someone says utilize local influencers and then someone says you utilize like organizing the local communities all of them are good, but then I want the best answer now.  The debate session is going on, choosing the best strategy. I believe in focusing on blah blah blah, I respect your point Diana, but in today's digital age, influencers have immense power. Think about it, they can introduce a product. And it's like they were just kind of arguing, debating themselves.  See, now the conclusion is the experts reached a conscious consensus on a hybrid strategy. They decided to utilize influencers to introduce the product focusing on its tangible benefits  and this would be followed up by a virtual event to offer a deeper experience of the product. This approach would combine the strengths of all three initial strategies ensuring scalability genuine interactions and highlight immediate product benefits. Guys, do you see the genuineness of the answer it gave from all this debate it had? Do you really think this is any good?  right just say yes or no what do you think huh so this is how the tree of thought prompting goes guys right like you ask chachapiti to create  Agents under like under them under you under it like say Charity will have four different marketing strategies experts. They will discuss between themselves and get to one consensus towards the end and this can be done. Imagine you are a developer. Your manager asked you to come up with a tech stack for a new product. They are going to your company is going to launch.  So you might kind of do research from the scratch get different points and stuff like that. But when you go to chat GPT and use the same method you will have five developers who are like at a product manager level or CTO level and they were discussing for you debating with within themselves brainstorming the best tech stack and finalizing one good tech stack for your product.  Isn't this good developers? Can you already relate with me especially the product managers and senior principal engineers and CTOs say yes, if you actually think this strategy is going to work you work for you, you know it for that use case any developers here. To me it iterates an information and came to append all the thoughts and gave a summary maybe  If I read again, I could try again on different use cases. Yes, Saujanya. Like just read it once again. Like I'll share this whole conversation prompt in the group just after this particular call. Yeah. So AI tech online edu, do you see the goodness of this particular thing already? Like say for your use case, what use cases do you think you could use this for?  So guys one last question before we move on just say me one use case that you could use to your thought prompting in your own life professional or personal life right now, just say me so that your brain will work now actively to think how to integrate this to your own life right now. I want everyone like every single one who is right now life should say me one use case in their life that they could use tree of thought prompting  Okay, Satyadev is asking a very good question. He's asking me to explain the difference between to critique, thought critique prompting versus free of thought prompting. Very nice question Satyadev. So critique is essentially what we are asking is AI to critique on an article or a code or anything like that that we already have written or AI have written. So we don't know basically it works for content or code  or something like that. But it might not work great for marketing strategy because by saying it to think about what it wrote, it's just one time it's thinking. Whereas, Tree of Thought prompting me, what we're doing is we're asking it to think five times, six times, eight times, how many ever times that we need. So when it thinks,  eight times in different people's perspective and come up with an answer and then also debate between themselves to come up with a conclusion is much more powerful than a general critique prompting. So critique prompting works for a quick, you know, content writing for a quick strategy development and everything that is quick. But when it comes to tree of thought prompting, it's little complex, I understand.  in-depth way of looking at things and then coming up with a very creative answer. Right? I still don't see anyone's use cases yet. Do you do you guys have anything yet? Or do you feel like you're lost thinking? What can I do? What is the use case?  Thank you Satyudev, fine and clear. Thank you. It can be used for traveling. Can you be little clear on how can we use T of thought prompting for traveling? Between friends. Yeah. Okay. Got it. Yes, we can do something like that. Anything else guys?  can use this use case for promoting products. Yes, of course, like imagine you have a product you want ad script. So now you can use something in that startup ideas, of course. You could just say something like this. Instead of renowned marketing expert, say renowned  entrepreneurs, the expertise starts with brainstorming unique, unique startup idea in AI space.  something like that and then they would just discuss and come up with some a tech titan knows for pioneering in tech health tech space blah blah blah. This is Madhavi working as a junior lecturer how can I use this for AI students because of Sarjeevati I got again a lot of knowledge thank you for that. So Madhavi as a lecturer you can ask your students to kind of use this particular prompt  I'll just ask Sanjeevati for the same like how can I just ask what is free of thought prompting. Do you know free of thought prompting? Hopefully it will not know the free of thought prompting. I'm sure because  Yeah, so I'll just give you one examples for the students. We have one for students. A cylindrical.  So as a lecturer, you can just ask people like seniors, you know, college to do something like this. You know, imagine they have a problem. Imagine three different experts are answering this question. All experts will write down the first step of their thinking, then share it with the group, and then all experts will go on to the next step, et cetera. If any expert realizes they were wrong at any point, then they leave. The question is a cylindrical tank is filled with water to 75% of their capacity.  and 300 liters of water are added. It becomes 90% full to remind the total capacity. Right? So before just to showcase the kind of power of tree of thought prompting, let's just come up with say the first question. We're not asking you to think it in a certain way. We're just asking you to think a cylindrical tank blah blah blah and then getting answer from it.  Let's solve this problem step by step. Okay, so basically it will give you an answer but then it will not be super correct all the time like you saw but then if you do this which is imagine blah blah blah  So this is very basic example that you can ask your students to do. But then, you know, it can be little. It can be useful, especially for complex problems. Like, you know, they want to solve some math problem, which is super complex. They could ask Chachapati to solve that math problem in this method so that, you know, they will kind of understand it a little better.  like say they'll get an accurate answer right so in this case both this prong gave us the answer which is 2000 liters and even the normal where we are just using it normally gave the same thing just give me one second  but gave me the same 2,000 liters answer. But then, since it's a basic question, even this worked. But this would kind of work better for advanced questions. So you see where I'm going? Yeah? So Madhavi, I hope I answered your question briefly. I hope you got your answer.  Okay, so please ask me in other words. We can say tree of thought is a finer than critic for the same case itself. Am I correct? Yes, I did it essentially critic tree of thought is just like the next step. We're having multiple solutions for a given answer or a thought. Let's say a thought. What should I say? Branches you're giving one problem and it is having thought branches like different branches.  Right? So yeah. So that's all for this video guys. I hope that answered a lot of your questions. We don't have anything on Python. It's only about AI as of now. So guys, did you find this helpful? Or did you, how many realized that you learned something new today? Just say yes.  Yeah, Sajani is saying yes, AI tech online edu is saying yes. Anyone else? Okay, a lot of yeses are coming right now. Okay, Madhavi, Achyut, Satyadev, and all of you.  Okay, great guys. So that's it for this video. So we'll meet again the next Saturday most probably 99% will meet on the Saturday. We'll let you know about the timings and all that in the coming classes. So thank you guys. Thank you to see you. I'll show you those prompts in the group after this call. Thank you. Bye. Bye. Have a great week ahead. Thank you


6. Chain of thought and Generated Knowledge Promoting (and how to write an entire book in a day) - 2nd Oct.mp3

Hey guys. Hi. Hi. Good morning and good evening from wherever you're joining from. Good morning and good evening. Hi, I'm Atavi. So guys, who is joining this inner circle calls for the first time?  I mean like people who just enroll saturday will be the first few ones right so  Good morning, Srini. Good morning, Prudhvi. You can hear me and see me perfectly and clearly, right? Hi, JMK. Hi, JMK.  Guys, many of you are actively consuming content from the LMS and learning something new on a weekly or daily basis. Just say yes, if you're actively learning something every other day from LMS. Sairam, yes. Raj says yes. Anyone else?  Come on guys, it's a morning. I understand in India. I want you guys to be actively engaged and consume the content so that you will get the best experience possible. Okay, Sairam says he just attended the webinar and joined this Saturday. Cool Sairam, this will be your first class and yeah, that's good. Okay, Srini.  So guys, for the first 10 minutes of this inner circle call, I'll try and answer your questions. Then we'll go into the topic and discuss one thing, which is related to prompting, a few prompting techniques. And then again, 10-15 minutes of Q&A, if you have any doubts, and we'll close it. It will be for one and one and a half hour approximately. So if you have any questions whatsoever related to prompt engineering, related to AI in general,  you know, feel free to ask for the first 10 minutes and we can go further from there. And also we have like few participants, right? So let me know what you guys do like, you know, what is your professional proficient?  Yeah just everyone just type in your profession like you know data architect, data scientist or whatever it is or you are an accountant or you are a designer just let me know so that I'll see if this particular session I'm going to teach will make sense to you or not.  Sairam asks, yes Sairam this session is being recorded and will be uploaded as a video in the learning management system maybe today. Sometime today we will upload this video as a recording.  So, every Saturday and Monday we have classes like this. You can just add in any one of them since we'll discuss just one thing, one same topic both the times so that we're doing it twice because we need to satisfy both the time zones which is India and USA. So, that's the reason we're doing it twice. So, you can just upload any of this class. So, yeah, that's the thing.  Mowly says, work in the capacity of solutions architect, production support, data engineer. I am USAID present on H4A, trying to find a job. Got it. This is Mowly working as a lecturer in government junior college. Great. Searching for a job completed my master's in applied computer science back in December in 2022. So hard at least to get an interview. Okay.  So you're talking about in USA it's getting harder to even get into use or you're talking about India.  Chandrakant. Okay, got it. Where will we get the links for this classes? Is there any schedule? Okay. So, Santosh usually since you join just Saturday, it is like for you it is like on the last minute notice, but usually every Thursday or Friday approximately will provide you links and everything. Links remains the same almost 90 percent of the times even the timings are the same which is  Saturday 1 o'clock in the afternoon Indian Standard Time and you know Monday on 6.30 a.m. Indian Standard Time right so these are the classes 90% of the times either class will be conducted myself or any other mentor so most of the time.  So yeah, these are the timings timings links remains the same but the reminders will give you in the whatsapp group and through the email, you know, every Thursday or Friday just like a reminder. So Raj let's discuss about prompting only today. We're going to discuss about the prompt itself.  Guys, any doubts kindly ask so that we will just do that for 5 more minutes and we will go into the actual session for the day.  What about copyrights of the content? Okay. So, I am assuming that you are asking if we get any copyrights from the content that Chargipity generated. Most of the time, no. The reason I believe that content generated by Chargipity can be copyrighted is very simple. No, usually what happens is Chargipity is just like a human brain, but on steroids, right? You know, whatever we do,  as a human what we do is you brains acquire data from different sources process it understands it and write content right as a content writer you first research from hundreds of articles or tens of articles depending upon the time you have and then you you write an article on on all the insights you get what's rgbt is doing is the same but then doing it 100x faster and  1000x better. That's it. So how can you just say learning faster is bad or learning faster is illegal. What Chargipati is doing is same. It's learning and finding patterns from the vast amount of data just to write an article about say, let's say, you know, since it's October 2nd, if you ask Chargipati to write an article on Mahatma Gandhi,  You know, it almost read every single article about Mahatma Gandhi on the internet plus every single book written on the Mahatma Gandhi just to write that 200 word article. So now just learning everything about him super quickly, processing it, finding patterns and giving you article just like a human, how can it be illegal?  Right? And then it's unique. It's not just plagiarizing. It's not like just copy pasting some article or anything. It's just taking them as reference and then giving you as an output. So this is what I logically think, you know, when it comes to copyrights, ChatGPT content will not be copyrighted. But then if it is like sometimes, you know, if it is super copy paste and you are asking the wrong prompts, like, you know,  with no context whatsoever very few times occasionally charger pitter will give you like content that has a lot of plagiarism in it. So, it's your responsibility as a AI user and a prompt engineer  to which you need to ask anything in little more contextually detailed way so that AI will have more context and know your requirement and will give you an in-depth explanation for your question rather than just writing it on a surface level, right? So yeah, that's all I think copyright is not possible for child CPT if at all if  content if you ask good in-depth question and then it will give you in-depth answer but if you just say hey write an article about mahatma gandhi there are like 50 50 chances that it it can give you plagiarism i don't know copy copyrighted content or plagiarism might content but if you say hey write an article about mahatma gandhi and talk about his uh  where he born, where he passed away and everything in between in this order and focus on his political things and focus on both positives and negatives of him and don't forget to mention couple of negative points about him that might have delayed you know independence or whatever like just take some stance and explain about it.  and blah blah blah. So, if you give little more context for your question, you'll get better answer which is very unique when you compare with any other article on the internet. So, that's the very reason why I think content from Chatterjee can't be copyrighted. I hope I answered your question. Thank you.  So, if it gives data from any other sources and we use them, will we get into trouble? Yeah, I think I answered your question. Hello Avinash, good morning. So, yesterday I have joined into freedom with you. I started with your intro call recording. Thanks. Parviz?  Just try and complete that intro video series where I have like six videos approximately Maybe today tomorrow just complete them and then watch a couple of inner circle calls that happen You know, there is this inner circle module right inner circle module is nothing but this call live recordings. Just go watch relevant inner circle calls  know anything like just read the title and if it is interesting watch couple of inner circle calls and it will makes little more sense before you go to freedom with AI blueprint that will literally help or you can directly go to freedom with AI blueprint like upon your think. This last one or two questions I'll answer and then you know we'll move to the today's topic.  So how many of you use charge a PT at least maybe few times in the past just say yes, if you are already a user of charge a PT and just see what do you use ChatGPT for? I'm a 3d animator and like to know how this feature going to be future going to be in the VFX industry.  I remember you from the master class yesterday. You asked this similar question yesterday, like you know, on a Saturday. Good to see you on a call.  So Arvind, what I feel is VFX as an industry has, you know, VFX is a very critical industry, you know, at least in, you know, software engineering, 80% of the software engineers are little basic, and 20% are very high level people who are very, very, very, like, you know, who does very in depth work. But when it when it when it comes to VFX,  Only 5% of VFX artists in the world can go super super in-depth and 95% are like are very basic. So the gap here is very huge already. So it's already a difficult job to produce a VFX like Avatar or maybe Bahubali or RRR. Only the top 5% of VFX artists can go that level of in-depth and make you make  graphics look very reality through VFX. So that's one thing you know there is this gap from the basic. I think you agree with me right Aravind like 95 people 95 VFX percent of VFX artists are basic and 5 percent were like very top notch. And essentially what happens if something is very difficult to do if one software comes out  Just like there are like couple of softwares, you know, there are like softwares like I'm just going to type few softwares that you need to explore wonder. Dynamics. Run. Run the ML. Fiber.ai and also P collapse.  right so these are the four tools for every VFX artist needs to explore right we covered few of them you know on a surface level or a little in-depth already and maybe in a week or two we'll cover almost all four of them very in-depth so so just try and go  use them and I feel this for AI tools will replace 90% of VFX artists. Especially the VFX artists don't use AI in the next few years maximum three years or four years this four tools like will be so advanced that it can just replace 90% of the VFX artists. So that's my prediction.  I know it's a little harsh but then I just feel them because already with just this three to six months into AI these tools were just doing wonders like literally they're making wonders right so yeah so I feel VFX artists needs to learn about this AI tools and need to learn about image journey, stable diffusion so that they can create characters for their movies from the scratch.  So, I hope I answered your question. Thank you, you know, Irwin. Yes, for assignments, I'm using it for coding. Yes, I use it for my student lab record work. Are there any ChatGPT tools to practice? Do we need it? So, Mahindra, just use it  3.5 version of chart GPT and then eventually if whenever you feel it's worth taking a 4 GPT 4 subscription at $20 per month, you know, you could take that. Picalabs you should try. Yes, it's a wonderful tool if I'm not wrong. Just try the trial version and then you know, I use chart GPT to refresh the emails to business and stakeholders. That's a very good use case Santosh Kumar Kirti.  I am a voiceover artist, can I use Chargipity for getting clients? You can't use Chargipity directly for getting the client Santoshi, but you could use Chargipity to kind of write great hooking emails and stuff like that. There is this particular tool called Devi, which you can use to get clients.  Davie is one tool that you could explore to get clients. Number one, just explore them and in just a week by this weekend, we are actually, you know, launching a course called AI for Digital Marketers, Freelancers and Business Owners. So this particular course will definitely help you in getting first few clients just like that. So that's one thing and also  We covered inside the AI monetization module right now. We covered one video where we are talking about how to optimize your Fiverr account to get maximum clients. So, how to use AI and you know kind of get the best you know profile in Fiverr. So, maybe exploring that video also will give you a little bit of idea on getting you know  your thing done so yeah so Santoshi just try and do that and then one more thing I would suggest Santoshi if you are a VFX artist is to be being on the top point one person in the world is most important right now as a VFX artist because there are AI tools that are generating human-like voiceovers with  no difference whatsoever in like you know the tonality of human. It is not sounding robotic at all. I'll just show you one tool. So it's absolutely needed for you to be on the top 1% in your industry if you want to be here for a long time. There is this particular tool called well said labs.  I'll just show you how this tool works. I'll just show you like we use this tool for our own voice over like voiceovers. Just listen to this few things. Listen to a few of this. Okay. Thank you for joining us for. I'll just show you the computer audio. Yeah. Just listen to this. Okay.  When you first open a client interaction, you'll be on the identification page. This is the default page for all client interactions. Overview of mediation. In this introductory series, we'll explore the purpose of mediation and the role of a mediator. Remember that you can pause this video at any time and that you can share your question. Let's face it, you're ready for a change. Join our crew for an adventure of a lifetime. I had an amazing dream last night.  I walked through a door made of lush green trees and found a world of fantastic color. All around me, lizards raced through a rainbow of wild orchids. The snow is falling and the mountains are calling. Stop by today for the best brands in skis, snow... Welcome to our podcast about local politics. We're here today to talk about one of... You see Santoshi? The stools? What do you think about this voiceover, Santoshi?  Like are they robotic or like good enough already and sounding human as a professional in a voiceover artist what do you think? Good enough right? So you should have a plan written right now to prepare for this AI dominated voiceover artist industry. So just prepare for it.  like whatever it is do you want to scale faster or do you have any unique selling point in in your voice or you know is it like can you also do mimicry like in your voice uh so like there are a few  like in a voiceover artist who give voice for cartoon characters, right? Can you do that? So, what is that unique selling point that AI can't do in your career? So, just prepare for it. I know it's difficult. I know you'll not get answer in one day. I know I can't give answer or anyone can't give you answer. It is your unique brain that needs to think  to prepare for this world where AI tools will just take away 90% of this voice over jobs especially in the next just few months to years. So, just be prepared and just also use this AI tools and then maybe kind of you could just use this AI tools to maybe  give voiceover services or something like that also there is like a huge possibility just try and explore different business models different use cases and different things in the next few months. That's one suggestion. I hope I gave you a little reliable and helpful answer Santoshi. Thank you. Wow, that's what I'm talking about Santoshi, you know, if you give voiceover for animated characters nothing like it like  AI at least for some time might not be able to give unique voices for the very new characters, right? At least for a year, I'm like hoping AI will not be able to do that, right? Like imagine there is a company that is creating a new cartoon character and they have certain requirements for that cartoon or animated character. So they have completely different things that, you know,  they require and AI tools will not be able to do that right now. Maybe in the future you know, there will be a tool where you will upload your character and then you will upload your requirements and it will give you the unique voice according to your requirement which is not available with them yet, but they will create one for you. That service is not available yet, but maybe maybe in the future. So,  or as a professional VFX art, you know, voice over artist, you can yourself create a AI tool like this and train on lots of cartoon character voices and then make this particular AI tool, you know, work for you as a VFX artist, right? So just a second guys. Yeah, that's what I think.  As a freelancer, we are getting very less opportunities in the market. So I want to improve my skills. Yes, improve your skills and improve your marketing abilities also so that you will get your clients faster. Great. So guys,  I want to use this to my students. So please give me some suggestions whenever possible. I think a lot of changes will happen in the educational system. So want to give students some useful for the future. Madhavi, thanks a lot for being this  a positive on this like I talk to a lot of teachers or educators and principals generally right they are actually again a ChatGPT like this they feel like you know we are in a world where students are copying and blah blah blah but then you are very good in understanding the importance of ChatGPT for students right so  Yeah, everything I'm essentially saying you guys right now, you can share it to your students and they could use ChatGPT for study purposes to make things, complex things to be explained in a very simple terms and ChatGPT could do that right now. So all that, you know, they could do and students right now  should accept the fact that the world is not going to be without ChatGPT anytime like at any cost. We should be prepared for a world where AI and ChatGPT will be there and things are going to be rough and how?  betterly or how could you can utilize and leverage AI for your career. They need to accept it and then prepare for that world. So they can't just deny the fact. So that's what you need to teach your students also say them that to use Chachipiti on a daily basis. If they have access to computer on internet and just start ask them to explore the endless possibilities. So  using the tool every single day for anything, like ask them to write a story, right? Today, I'm going to teach how to write a book using Chatterjee Pity. So maybe ask your students to write a small book using Chatterjee Pity, you know, ask them to write a movie stories, so that at least they learn how the tool works. And whenever the time comes, they'll be well prepared to use it for the right reason by then.  So that's what I think, you know, I started using my first computer to play games. But then by playing games, I understood more about the computer than anything else. Like if my parents, if they have told me that you need to only use a computer just to study, right, prepare for exams, use Google and internet for research purposes, I wouldn't have done that.  I wouldn't have gotten into computer game super fast early into the business and stuff like that. Only because they just didn't restrict me. They said, okay, do whatever you do. I know that the computer is the future. Just be the user of computer and then let's see what happens. My parents gave me the computer and didn't restrict me whatsoever. Even if I'm playing games, they just felt wow.  He's so intelligent that he's winning in this video games is what my parents thought lucky me. So similarly for your students and for your kids, I mean like whatever it is. You also need to just ask them to use ChatGPT.  for whatever the reason don't restrict them and ask them to see the endless possibilities and see the best and it best things it could do and the worst things it could do so that they will be the best users of the tool. So I hope I am not giving you abstract and boring answers. But yeah, just using the tool on a daily or by the like no once in every two days.  would give them the best experience than any technique or anything would give them that's one thing as a student because they don't have like a ready-made use case and you know they don't have like they don't need to be prepared for the job yet because they have four five years already to get placed so yeah okay  Okay, Venkat Ram Reddy, yes. So we'll discuss about how to become a prompting data and all towards the end of the session. But for now, just give me a second guys. Yes. Okay.  So, so guys last week we discussed about two prompting techniques which is a critique prompting and free of thought  prompting. So we discussed about this two prompting techniques last week and the response is very nice. I like my team personally received like 8 to 10 messages just after the class saying this is one of the best sessions and stuff like that. I'm so happy that you found critique prompting and tree of doctor prompting so very valuable. So I'm going to discuss two more prompting techniques today, which is generated knowledge  prompting and chain of dot prompting. So, we will discuss  basically about this two prompting techniques and for the very few people who miss the first two things which is critic prompting and tree of thought prompting just go watch last week's inner circle call live recording you will understand this both the techniques little bit better but then these two techniques which we are going to discuss today are not going to be interlinked with them these are like two individual things  Like you will understand the session even if you did not attend the last live class ok. So, we recorded the session and we uploaded it. So, just try and watch it if you missed it ok cool. So, how many of you would love to know about generated knowledge from tink and  chain of thought prompting see yes if you are excited to learn about this two prompting methods and integrate into your work life and be a professional prompt engineer with all these techniques sadhana says good morning avinash we are ready good morning sadhana  is there a way to create a specific AI tool to read all company related policies standards which should understand and automate AI reporting or call to any events. So, Mahindra yes I will answer this question please remind me towards the end. So, first let us let us complete this and then I will answer. Okay great guys just I will sip water and then we will start.  So, let's first discuss about the generated knowledge prompting, okay. So, generated knowledge prompting is very simple, okay. Whenever you go to chat GPT, you know, imagine if you want to plan a trip, right.  You usually what 99 or 0.9 percent of the people do is they'll just go to charge a pretty and directly ask. Hey, can you just Plan a trip for me or hey, this is my code. Can you fix the code for me or something like that?  Right? But the thing is, ChargPT has a vast amount of knowledge, right? So much that no human, no smartest human in the world has this much knowledge in their brains yet. So, when you, when you ask ChargPT, the similar questions related to the thing you need,  Asking the thing you need will give a context. Let me explain put it in a right words in a perfect words instead of directly asking your end question, which is planet trip for Turkey.  You will not go directly ask that, but you'll go to Charjipati and keep this question aside and ask questions like, hey, do you think going to Turkey is a good thing for a newly married couple? Question number one. Hey, what are the 10 good restaurants in Turkey? Okay. What are the eight different things that I could explore in Turkey as a tourist attraction? Okay. What are the four historical things that I need to learn about Turkey?  Great, right? So, when you ask this four or five, you know, warming up questions before you actually give the last, you know, required question, this is where  it will get the context of it and you know it will understand okay this guy is looking about turkey and its brain will only be pointed towards turkey in a very in-depth manner with little more context than if you directly go ask hey plan my plan me a trip for right or plan me an itinerary for turkey you see the difference here  Will are you able to understand that's the generator prompting generated prompting technique is nothing but keeping your main question aside and asking few warm-up questions to start with so that you're giving a lot of context to ChatGPT, right?  That's all so if you are a coder and if you want it to build some kind of code in Python to build some app instead of asking the question directly just warm charge of the up by asking some relevant questions related to your end question, but not end question. Just some relevant questions. Like if you want to write a Python code just ask each activity. Do you know about Python?  Okay. What are the five great things about Python? Okay, great. Do you think I could I can code say calculator app in Python or do you think I could use Python to you know, develop something like this? What are the few advantages of it? Do we have any alternatives other than Python stuff like that? So just ask some relevant questions about your end question first.  and then start asking the exact answers you need that's generated knowledge prompting for you. How many of you got what I meant? I'll shortly give you an example the whole class for 30 40 minutes. It will be just example, which is I'll write a book using this generator knowledge prompting and chain of thought prompting. So just before that how many of you guys understood the definition just say yes, if you understood the definition.  Yeah. It's very clear. Thank you. Thank you. Great. Great guys. You're awesome. You guys are awesome. So now, since we understood gender-denialist prompting, let's go understand chain of thought prompting. So there are two different definitions or two different ways one could do chain of thought prompting. Okay. So essentially, chain of thought prompting, you know, I'll say why we use chain of thought prompting first and then explain what is chain of thought prompting.  So, imagine you wanted chart GPT or any large language model to do a big complex task. You know it's not a typical article or you know it's not a typical you know code that you need from chart GPT.  It's little big. It's like thousand word code or it's not thousand word, but it's little complex to go debug your code or something like that. So for whatever the thing is, whenever you think you're giving a complex task to ChatGPT you could do two things. Okay.  There are two use get to two different situations here where number one is, you know, the answer is complex. It's complex but not large. The text is just like 500 words or 200 words, but then it is complex. It's little difficult. It's to comprehend that question even for a normal human or it's little difficult to go get the answer. That's one thing but the thing is not large.  Right? There is one situation like that. There is second situation where it is complex also and it is large also. Like for example, if you want ChatGPT to write an entire book, right? To write an entire book. So, it is complex to write a book and it's also a large, it requires like 10-20,000 words to write a book.  You get it. So this is the second use case. I'm like second situation. The first situation would be in a to debug your code right to debug up given code. You might be giving hundred word code and to debug that tragedy would do it in maybe hundred two hundred words like hundred words for the context and hundred hundred words to give you the revised code with no bugs in it. So both the situations are complex. But the thing is the in the first case  You are just asking it to give asking ChatGPT to kind of understand it and give the answer. It's not large. The output is not large second case may output is super big super huge. It can be 10,000 words 20,000 words. The first case is not like that, but both are complex. So these are the two kinds of complex things that you need to usually do in ChatGPT, right? So  So whenever you know that you're going to give something similar in these two lines, you need to do something like this. Chain of thought prompting is dividing your bigger agenda into smaller chunks and getting things done by ChatGPT for more quality answers. Let me explain. Your bigger agenda. Your bigger agenda is to write a book, a storybook.  Right? It's a bigger agenda. But if you go to chat GPT and say no matter how good context how big of a mega prompt you give describing everything about the book you need.  ChatGPT just can't write the whole book like no matter what you could right now go to ChatGPT 3.5 or 4 and ask it to write a storybook. You just give plot characters everything but still ChatGPT will not be able to write an entire book because it's a very large for ChatGPT to write it. So now what to do we need to divide this whole book into smaller chunks. What do I mean by that?  So first you will do a plot and ask charge abt to forget don't ask everything. Okay, give the context about your book give all your requirements, but only ask one output question, which is hey, this is the plot. I have can you develop this prompt in a better way and give the prompt back to me?  It will give you a revised and you know, in-depth plot line which you already give right number one and then you can ask. Hey charge a pretty can you give me five different characters for this particular book so that I could write a book upon develop develop a character. It will give you five different characters. Then you can ask. Hey, can you develop the characterization of each character as a next round? You're not asking it in the same prompt. It will do that.  and then it will give you characterizations then you know you can ask charjyapriti to give chapters of the book and then you can ask charjyapriti to write each chapter then so now it will write each chapter and for each chapter you can just say one requirement you know you can say can you  Create the bonding between two characters or can you create conflict between two characters? And then can you do this in this particular chapter? Can you do that in this particular chapter? So you'll just give you a brief requirements about each chapter and ask you to write one chapter at a time and then you can even ask it to add folks ask it to add twist turns and all the things so  So now you you see why ChatGPT will give you the best answers when you divide your bigger tasks and make it concentrate in only at only one thing at a time. That's all. See, you know as humans even we will be little overwhelmed when we have 18 tasks to do in a day, but then when we say hey, we have one task for now.  We have different tasks, but I'm going to say only one task just completed as soon as you can and then let's let I'll give you one more if you manage to say something like this other than giving 20 different things to do in a single day. You'll feel a little overwhelmed and give you give little less quality output on a daily basis, right?  Right? So did you understand guys? How many of you now understood what is chain of thought prompting? Just say yes, if you understood what is chain of thought prompting also and be frank and say no if you didn't understand it. That's fine. I'll just explain a better example so that you will understand what is chain of thought prompting and what is generated knowledge prompting.  and it is confusing it will be confusing 100% but once you say example it will be super clear so now so in chain of thought prompting there are there is I said I there are like two situations right one is complex and large for situations which are complex and large you could do the second thing where you'll you'll just ask one question at a time to get your bigger agenda done right  but there are complex but small tasks where it's just debugging the code or something like that. Then you could say literally add this word think step by step. Let's just say this. I'll just show you one example before actually me going into you know, say.  writing a book. I'll just give one example for all the programmers here so that we'll be on the same page. If you are a software programmer, you know, if you want Charactability to debug a code or do certain thing, what most of the people  do is just give the code and just ask one line down below say hey, I have this particular error. Can you fix it? That's all you do. Sometimes ChatGPT will be able to fix it. Sometimes ChatGPT will not be able to fix it and other times ChatGPT will give you a temporary fix which you know that it's a temporary fix. Sometimes you don't know. It's a temporary fix. So it will just temporarily make your code run but on a longer run  You know, this particular fix might create you new problems in the future. It's just like a temporary glitch you're solving but not permanently. Because Charjabadi is not able to know the context. It's not giving you the best fix for your problem. It's just giving you a fix with no context whatsoever.  Right, but then if you are a real programmer who knows the exact road map to actually fix a bug that is little easier for ChatGPT than if you could give that exact road map that a human would use to debug a code.  Like, you know, it's just not like you reading the code for hundred different times and then, you know, finding small error like an English grammar and then fix it, right? You will not do that. There is a certain way although I'm not a coder. I know coders might have a certain flow to do the debugging or to do anything in their work life. If you could give that flow to the charge equity and say hey, this is the flow I would use if you are you and think step by step.  and here and get me the answer that will give you the better answer. So you see you are a software engineer working on a large project. You've just been informed that there is a bug in the code causing the application to crash. The error log indicates an error index out of the bounds exception. That's the error in the processing data function.  and you'll just give some code here and then your task is to debug and fix the issue. Let's work on this step by step way to make sure we get the right solution and give the six-step process that you or your team would use to fix that particular code and  Here if you see we're using the word step-by-step very keyword here. That's the most important thing here. Just adding this particular world. Just give me a second. Yes. I just need to log in. Yeah, just adding the word saying that to think step-by-step alone will make all the difference in the world, right? Just give me one second.  Yeah, so so why we are adding the word step-by-step here simple. The reason why we are adding the word step-by-step is because it's complex. We don't want to overwhelm charge abt by thinking about the next step in the first itself. We are asking charge abt to literally don't think about the next steps only think about the first step first and then work on it and we are even giving the context. So this is chain of thought prompting. This is how you need to use chain of thought prompting for complex  but small text like, you know, small output, you know, it's a complex task, but the output will be small whenever you think like that. You can just use that chain of thought by adding this particular line called step-by-step and adding little context by giving roadmap like you are you can you you can only ask that Jupiter to think step-by-step when you give the steps. You can't just ask that Jupiter to do  Think step-by-step, but if you don't give the what are actual steps, it will just not be able to understand what it means, right? So that's what it is programmers. Is it making sense? Just see if you're a programmer and you understood how to integrate enough thought prompting to your use cases in your work life. Just say yes. Yeah.  Okay, Parvaj says now I got it. Mohammed says yes. Guys, I just want if you didn't understand, please let me know. I'll give you a few more examples or try to give whatever. But then just it's very important for me to make make it understood for you. Sadhana says as a programmer, it's very clear. It's clear. Okay.  We do we only have three programmers in the room. If you have more programmers just say yes, if you understood it and if you're listening to me.  Okay, Rajesh says yes, Prabhas says yes, Rajesh says understood. Okay, Srinivas says yes, understood. Great, cool. So that's how you need to integrate chain of thought prompting as a programmer to your work life. So now let's understand use case of this generated knowledge prompt and chain of thought prompt and also critic prompting.  a bit. So I'll explain critic prompting with direct example here. Okay, so I'll just create a plot. How many of you write stories like any stories? Okay, Sadhana says I always use the step-by-step process to check the flow as a programmer. Great. Thanks.  Okay, Sarojini says I have and I'm like yes, I have some questions will clarify later. Great Sarojini. So do we have any story writers here? Okay, if you have any story plot and wanted to develop as the book right now together, let me know if you can do that. Like you have any plot line?  Okay, let's take a plot line of a movie where let's take a plot line of Bahubali and just let's write the whole. Book on the movie Bahubali using chatty right now. How many of you would be interested in something like that? Using chain of thought prompting.  and other types of prompting. Do you think writing a book on Bahubali story, but not exactly Bahubali. We're just taking a plot and writing our own version of Bahubali. Do you think that would be great? Okay, a revolution of chart GPT. Yes. Yes. Yes interested. Great. So since everyone are interested here. So I just gave a chart GPT a thing.  and then ask Charjipati to kind of, hey, can you explain me this plot line for my book? So that's my first question. Like I could give a lot more context. It's a fictional book called Bahubali.  Bahubali and the target audience is the target audience are people who are above 20 and love ancient drama ancient  Indian drama. Make sure to be more creative and independent.  So I could write a better prompt than this. If I get like 15 minutes of my time, I could write a super in-depth prompt for my book. Like for a book that's worth like 10,000 words or 50,000 words, like taking 15 minutes and doing a prompt is better. But since now we are on a call, it would be very boring if I keep writing a bigger prompt. So I'm just writing it like a smaller version and then something like this. Like I'll just expand the same thing  and yeah he as a professional as a professional fictional writer with 20 years experience and 100 plus awards  So, the reason why we are giving it a role as a professional fictional writer with 20 years experience and 100 plus awards, can you expand? The reason why we are giving that is Chargibility can write the book  in any way we want, right? It can write as if an immature content writer is writing, as if a professional is writing, as if a doctor is writing a fictional book. You know, a doctor would write a fictional book in a certain way when you compare with a lawyer.  or someone else right what is that role of the author you want to have so if you could give that role yourself like as a fictional professional writer with 100 years of experience or 100 plus awards with 20 years of experience  there is a legacy involved, right? There is a whole techniques and like say the whole patterns are 20 plus years experienced fictional writers would follow. So instead of giving those one pattern every pattern that this 20 years experience fictional writer would like not do which is giving it a character and then it will do that like it will do whatever we whatever this 20 year experience  professional fictional writer would do in an ideal case scenario. Right, I am just asking you to write  The title it gave us is like Bahubali echoes of Mahishmati in the lush and the mystical province of Mahishmati which was of a lost prince echo through every village and twinning the ancient banyan trees and hovering over the tranquil waters the kingdom once  symbol of prosperity and unity now lies under the oppressive rule of Balal Deva who unserved the throne through the dark and sinister means Sangha and her husband Vijendra inhabitants of a humble tribe living on a blah blah blah so it gave us an expanded plot which is cool right so now  So now how would I use generated knowledge prompting now? Like I gave us a prompt and asked it to expand so that we set a context for ChatGPT to like write the whole book on. So now if I would be a professional prompt engineer and if I need to use generated knowledge prompt and generate some context between me starting asking to write an actual book, what I would do is I'll just say, can you  Create 8 characters for me to write this book on Vahubali. I just asked you to create 8 characters for me to write this book on Vahubali. 4 being negative characters and 4 being positive.  like now I am not asking charjapati to actually write anything out I am just asking some relevant questions right like relevant questions about creating characters being negative being positive and stuff like that and it is even giving us Avantika, Tara, Kavi, Pallaladeva, Kalakeya, Naya, Sarpan you know it is giving negative is like  You know, it is giving us the role, the backstory, stuff like that. So now, can you create three friends and three enemies? Enemies from this.  So, I am asking Charjeepeti to first create three enemies and three friends from this. I meant three ways not three member group. So, what it did is it gave us like three  group of three people what I meant is actually Shivudu versus Avantika, Bahubali versus Kavi like that I just want two people each so since it did I am not able to give the better context here I just gave again and then now it will just Shivudu and Avantika, Kavi and Tara and Shivudu and Kavi. These are the three friends and three enemies of this particular thing.  Okay, so what would be a road map for me to write a book on this from here? Right, so  So now this is next level from an agenda to knowledge prompting instead of asking it to write the whole story out. First thing I'm asking it is what would be the road map for me to write a book from on this from here. So when and I'm not giving the road map, I'm asking chart GPD to give the road map so that you know, it now has a little bit of context on how to write the book than anything else.  So, then I'll say it actually gave us a good roadmap, research and immersion, you know, character development, world building.  outline and the core plot, subplot development, character arcs, drafting, Act 1, Act 2, Act 3, consistency, dialogues, and then self-editing, beta readers, professional editing, blah, blah, blah, right? So this gave us the whole roadmap of writing this book. So now what I'll do is since it said we already had this character arcs and developments, what we need to now work on is directly go into Act 1, Act 2, Act 3 and stuff like that.  So, so now here is what here is when I am starting right now is where I am actually starting it to ask how like to write a storybook right. So, I will ask Chhatrapati to write based on all the all the information you have  Can you create me or me 10 chapters in this book and explain each chapters each chapter a lot in a line or two from my context.  Right? This is where I'm actually starting right now. You see till now. I used chain omelette generated knowledge prompting by asking simple relevant questions about my end goal of writing book from now. I am going to use  chain of thought prompting. I am not asking it to write the entire book. I am asking it to write just chapter what is the chapter and a summary of that particular the plot of that particular chapter. That's it. Now, now is the time when I'll ask it to use  Chapter one whispers of destiny she would do despite his idiotic life with sangha and her husband and her husband is uh paralyzed by the lofty peaks of the distant mountains and whispers of her destiny unfulfilled oh god i don't know it is sounding like bahubali did we give this in the context i'll just see  save a drowning in fact it will do that on the background the blah blah blah free inspired mountain and then process to learn guys i don't know how it it actually gave us bahubali's like plot here it's a little shocking but anyways let's assume uh this is the output she would do despite his id like blah blah blah so this is the first chapter and if you see this is the first thing that happens in the bahubali in a bahubali one  So, I will ask again to write as a professional.  Remember one thing guys, whatever the task you are giving, give it first, not last. ChatGPT tend to skip things little towards the end. So whenever you give what ChatGPT needs to do at the beginning, it will give the thing at last.  Okay, so now I'm just asking it to write a word. Can you write, can you complete chapter one of the book? And then I just asked it to complete one chapter at a time right now. So now chapter one, Vistas of Destiny.  The midday sun hung high over the province of Mahishmati, its rays shimmering across blah blah blah. In the heart of the tribe lived a young man named Shivudu, renowned  And now not for his birthright, still veiled in mystery, but for his unparalleled strength and insatiable curiosity, raised by the kind-hearted Sangha and her sturdy, pragmatic husband, Shivudu grew amidst the tales of faraway lands, epic battles, and ancient secrets, whispered cautiously around flickering fire lights. This story is blah blah blah.  So now it gave us the entire chapter one. No, let's imagine this is not a big book. It's a short book, right? So I'm fine if it give gave me a small one. So now I'll ask it to. Critique on itself. A professional writer with 100 awards.  Can you critique the above chapter?  So now what is critic prompt prompting simple whenever you have some content or whenever you ask ChatGPT to write some content and not sure if it is good or you need some suggestions from AI to improve your content or improve your code will just ask ChatGPT to critique.  on the content and it will just give positives, areas for improvement and suggested adjustments. That's it. It will just give all the things that we need to change in an organized and systemic order. All you need to do is again go to chart GPT. First first maybe you read it. It says the chapter begins with a visually rich description that sets the scene effectively and is likely to draw  into the story, character introduction, emotional underpinning, mystical element. So, these are the positives of your chapter and areas for improvement would be consider pacing on the flow of the narrative while the descriptions are vivid ensure they are not impede the forward momentum of the plot and dialogue authenticity.  For a shadowing use of cliches character depth transitions and cohesion, right? These are the six things it sees the thing and then interviewing the backstory is developing secondary characters enhancing conflicts. So now what I'll do is I'll go to the activity and say hey, can you rewrite the chapter one?  from the feedback you gave me. Make sure to integrate all the nine points you gave me in areas for improvement and suggested  suggested adjustment categories right. So, now  Hey now it is rewriting the entire chapter one according to this nine feedback points. So critique prompting is nothing but you asking ChatGPT to critique on a certain content and asking ChatGPT to write rewrite the entire content you already have from the feedback it gave in the previous step.  for coders it is going to revolutionize the quality of your code trust me you are generating the knowledge before asking the right question and it will give you an answer and after like  Okay, you generate a lot of questions answers relevant, you know warmed up ChatGPT ask the final answer. It gave you the perfect answer. But then to check if it is hundred percent quality or not, just go ask ChatGPT as a professional coder.  in Python with 8 years experience or 5 years experience who is working in world-class companies with world-class standard operating procedures. Can you just check the code above and critique the improvements something like that and then it will give you all the critiques like this. You just ask it to rewrite the code, you know to be little better. So if you see  It gave us the dawn part of it. It's not just a gold imbibed skies, but also an ancient murmur that wound through the verdic fields and nested with the cosy hamlets of Mahishmati province. She would do while his muscular arms pounded the door for the day's spread.  found his gaze perplexually veering towards the looming mountains in the east each peak seemed to converse with skies whispering tales of epochs gone by something like that you know so this is the chapter one of the book we got and then in this revision i attempt to integrate elements from the feedback one two three four five six seven eight nine  So, it gave us the revised version of it and it also gave few things that it changed. So, I got like few questions. I will just answer them before going on. How many lines of storyline did you submit before prompting? I just sadhana gave it like 8 line plot. That's it. Yes, how Charjapati knows the visual looks in a movies.  Charger PD might not understand visuals like loops, but then it understands the words. Someone uses to describe a visual right? So from there it will give us the whole thing. So I'll just see. Hey. Do you think I can ask Charger PD again a question? Hey, do you think this?  Do you think this is a small, do you think, hey, isn't this small and short for a book, for a whole chapter in a book? Yes, kindly expand  the whole thing a bit more for more for better experience for the procedure. I just feel the above thing is like a little short. I'll ask ChatGPT to you know, kind of make it little  longer little in depth so that you know, it will get the will get the best experience possible. So this is the first chapter. Okay. So almost we are end of the first chapter and you will do exactly seen 10 different times with few inputs every single time and you end the whole book just like this. So I'll go to the chapter 2 now and ask ChatGPT.  So it gave us like say 20% like you know longer version than what we got here. A mist of tranquil plains of Mahishmati where emerald fields swayed the winds blah blah blah blah blah. So in this expanded version I endeavoured to provide a deeper into the emotional philosophy.  Blah blah. So it gave us whole chapter one. Like you can literally go charge a pretty and ask it to write even bigger even bigger twice and thrice then only then it will write like 2000 word chapter instead. It will not be able to kind of write like a 5000 word chapter out of the blue. You just need to ask. Hey, can you expand again? Can you expand again thrice and it will do it for you. So since we we know what to do will skip that particular step and go to the next chapter.  okay I'll say complete this chapter but as a hook or twist to chapter 3 kill the character shivudu  she would do for the ultimate ultimate mind-blowing experience for the readers readers for the readers so we usually don't expect hero to be uh like you know killed like in the chapter say in the chapter two like  we like you know we feel that hero should be there towards the very end and we don't expect and the moment we see that hero died uh for some reason it is so emotionally hooking for them to read who what like then what stays in the chapter 2 and you'll read it like we are now asking charjeevati to complete the chapter while complete the chapter i'm just giving one input where i'm just saying uh that the character should be the character shivdhu should be  killed here and for the ultimate mind-blowing experience for the readers and make it super emotional. That's all. So now it is basically writing the entire plot.  not plot, the entire chapter 2. The mist gently clears the mountain terrains, whispering ancient secrets as she would do under the dimly lit blanket of cruel dark to light a trough through the  undulating paths, his spirit lured by the ethereal twists of the density, and perhaps something more tangible, something monotonally hidden with the enfolding mist. Avantika, a warrior of eternal beauty, yet fierce resolve, silently traversed the same rocky paths a herd embroiled in a mission to unearth the  enigmas shadowing maashmati her eyes through glittering blah blah blah blah let's see where uh shivudu gets killed here okay shivudu his life bled creasing the ancient soil towards avandhika his eyes blah blah by spirit while cascading into beyond which was realms of the lay my love tale is not complete newly found resolve called  In this chapter, I aim to weave together elements of love, conflict and ultimate tragedy to create a potential emotional experience and set the stage for ensuring chapters where Avantika, now imbued with love and loss, becomes a pivotal character in the unfolding drama with Mahashmati. I don't know where Shivdu got killed here.  Suddenly a dark shadow, yet ominously tangible, slithered through the serenity of the night among mortals. And Curious Whisperer, creasing the winds, shivered over his... How many of you think the English, the vocabulary here is so like high level? Like how many of... just say yes if you feel vocabulary of chargibility is like very like depth, in-depth.  like very high level even I am not I am not able to read few words it's giving us but then it's fine usually in this very high-end fictional books in international segment we have you know vocabulary that an average 15 year or 20 or 25 year old would never understand. We could literally ask Charjipati  to write with little easier vocabulary also so I'm just trying to find where Shivudu got killed but not able to okay I'll just ask Rajab herself can you point me where Shivudu got killed in the above chapter  Shivudu, propiled by the love and inter-enveiler, inter-posed himself between Avantika and the entity. His form emanating a light, blinding yet epiphermal, confronts the shadow-base. A scream, primal yet imbued with heart-wrenching vulnerability, tore through the night as the entity's mind was underrated.  and make the scene where Shivudu got killed in a better and in-depth way. So basically it killed Shivudu but all it happened in a second. So what I'm asking Charjipati is to rewrite the entire chapter and make the scene where Shivudu got killed in a better and in-depth way. That's all.  Shivudu, feeling an inexplicable bond towards this imending threat, positioned himself protectively before her, his eyes ablaze within, then from the abyss emerged an entity, a shadow comprised of the darkest spectres of the universe, it essentially a wild contradiction to the purity and the love that has blossomed a moment ago. Shivudu, undetailed  undetected by overpowering darkness stepped forth a vibrant aura emanating from his very soul confronting the entity. Entity here is the villain guys. His eyes looked with abyss a silent woe cursing cursing through this  space between them are off to protect to endure as the entity lunged time itself seemed to fracture rendering the ensuring moments into haunting fragmentings of love despair and surreal tranquility shivudu embracing his destiny met the dark spectator with trans-credental fury yet his mortal form appears in his life his form blah blah blah  his form crumbling gracefully to the earth, Avantika rushed to him, her warrior fescue dissolving into ocean of anguish and disbelief." So essentially, without saying the entity killed or something, you know, it is just explaining it in an abstract way. Shivudu, with his remaining breath, gently creased her tears stained on her cheek. Here, his  soft his voices of echo amidst the harrowing silence my love within the chambers of your heart i shall linger eternally my spirit unbound by mortal confidence will accompany your journey through the wheels of a mystery and war that's it and then explanation mystery a life departed from his eyes blah blah blah so  And then you can ask ChatGPT to click on itself again like we did for the first chapter and then complete this chapter the final version. And then we're done. One second. Yeah. So that's all any doubts guys.  So whenever there is complex but large text involved you are going to ask one prompt at a time basically dividing your picker agenda into smaller chunks and ask one thing at a time and get things done. And whenever you're doing chain of thought prompting, it is also good idea to use critic prompting to critique the contents are jeopardy gave so that we'll get the best chapter out.  So you will just do the same for 10 chapters and you will get 10,000 words out of it approximately and your book is done. You can publish it on Amazon Kindle with no copyrights whatsoever. But if you do publish this Bahubali story, you will have copyright because for the explanation basis since I am not a story writer or a book fictional writer, I just took that just to show you as a reference. But if you are writing a book, you should write on your own plots, on your own characters,  or ask ChatGPT to develop those characters from scratch. Right and there are like again nine things it suggested approximately and you can just ask it to rewrite this entire chapter. That's all. Yeah, Google bar. Yeah.  Yes, Aditya, Chachapati read more literature than Google Bard in my opinion. That's why it used high-end vocabulary, but you can just ask Chachapati to rewrite the second, rewrite the chapter 2 with very, with easy vocabulary.  is your vocabulary while maintaining all the points and in-depthness.  Shivudu and Avantika, under the gentle glow of the night sky, found a special connection, a deep bond. Amid the beautiful mountain range, the towering peaks around them, one silent observer of many tales seemed to whisper ancient stories and secrets to the priest. Their eyes met, telling tales of dreams and fears without words, connecting them in a way neither had felt before. With their moments of peace, a newfound love was shattered by a sudden  fruitful energy that filled the air around them, turning the calm night into a terrifying darkness. Avantika, always a fighter, drew her weapon, ready to face whatever was coming with strength and grace. Shivudu, despite not knowing where the dark energy came from, stood protectively before her,  His eyes shining with fearless determination. From the darkness, a scary shadow figure emerged, stacked against the pure love that they had blossomed between them. Shivudu, bold and unafraid, blah blah blah. So how many of you feel this is a better version with simpler vocabulary than the previous one? Just say yes if you feel this version is a little better than the previous ones.  with the obviously easier vocabulary. Yes, I just need to copy paste. That's all. Yeah. So the goal here is not to kind of write a book but then just to use a like, you know, the whole goal of this entire practical which we did right now or like the  walkthrough we did now is to make you understand the importance of chain of thought prompting like you know critic prompting plus generated knowledge prompting this three knowledge prompting that's it like end of the day  no it's okay if it is like you know little high vocabulary or anything like that you know for us it might be very high in vocabulary for a general fictional reader like with lots and lots of reading experience they'll just feel it's very basic for them you know if you see all the fictional readers with lot of harry potter or all these things in experience would use high in vocabulary maybe transseptice trying to  Do that. I have a question. Bahubali story taken reference from a movie or other books. So Prabhas what Charjipati would have done is whenever we use Bahubali, it will go to the it will go to his life in its database in its database. If there is anything related to Bahubali, it will take that as the reference first and then create something on top of it. So it is a mix of what  what is there in its database already plus a little bit of more creative, you know improvements on base it already has. Is there any word plug-in for ChatGPT? Aditya, what do you mean item click? Can you explain it little specific? Will there be any difference in output from GPT-4 to GPT-3.5? Santosh Kumar, yes.  the quality and the creativity is little different in charge of it for but when it comes to writing stories 3.5 is also good enough, but when it comes to strategic thinking or maybe doing coding little complex tasks, you know charge of it e4 outperforms 3.5, but for stories books and stuff like that, you know, 3.5 is also very good enough.  So guys how many of you are thinking that they are learning something new that they are learning something new that they could implement and then get something quickly from their work life. It's very creative stuff stuff. Yes. I love it. Thank you. Yes, just like you have a plug-in for data analytics. Do we have any we have a word plug-in you mean Google word plug-in that converts your text right back to your Google Doc immediately.  Okay. Thanks a lot guys. Thanks a lot for saying yes. Is there any class for creating continuing image for story same characters in every image? Sassy, it's a good. It's a good point. I will ask one of my designers to do that very soon. I'll just paste this to my design.  I just asked it to my designer. He will create it very soon. Yes, so for now, we don't have anything like that Aditya as far as I know, but let me check never like I usually copy paste, but then it will be definitely easier. It's a good idea though, especially for content writers and other people.  We have count the number of words, create the word cloud images, allow you to get the content of documents stored and blah blah blah. Convert to Word.  No, Aditya, we don't have anything. We have a lot of like, you know, PDF readers. Now, when you give a PDF version of any book or any chapter, you could ask ChatGPT any questions related to that. That's there, but nothing like specifically to convert this entire thing to plugins. Maybe it's the time. If you're a coder, you need to create a plugin and then upload it into ChatGPT.  Uh, yes, I think it's super cool. Okay. I want to give vision to chargipity. Uh, Hashward then? Good idea. But then chargipity already, I mean like, you know, OpenAI is already doing it. Chargipity, uh, recently, I mean like OpenAI recently announced that, uh, uh, chargipity is getting the vision.  As I think this month only we will get this vision. This is the future chargeable now can interrupt interpret images. It has vision. So it the opening is already working on the same feature. Okay, so genius is excellent. Thank you. So Genia is there a way that we can connect to request currently each request is isolated isolated. So I need to  send previous history to new request which is consuming lot of tokens so just give me one second guys there's no one in the home and someone is ringing the bell just one second i'll be very back like just a second  Yeah, I'm sorry guys. Let's continue. Is there any way to connect? So I need a previous history or two new requests, which is consuming a lot of tokens. Okay. Is there any way we can connect two requests? Currently, each request is isolated. So I need to send the previous history to a new request, which is consuming a lot of tokens.  So Mauli, could you give me, I understood what you meant, but then I want to answer once you give me a little bit more context of it. Like, I understood, but then I wanted more clarity. You'll not see this GPT plugin in GPT-in, but you might want to check the word side, not GPT side.  Maybe Aditya like I'm sure there is no plug-in in the Google Word also. Maybe there is notion AI inside notion AI you could use chargipity 3.5 or force backend and write the whole story inside the chargipity notion AI itself. Maybe so that the whole thing will be in the same notion document. So that yes possible.  Yeah, I want to discuss something for the future of today's children's morality. Is there any chance to reach you? I mean, I want to talk to you. Actually, this is the purpose I joined this program. I want to learn new things and I feel wow. Yeah, Madhavi, you know, Instagram DM me once or LinkedIn DM me and we'll definitely get in touch sometime this week or next week and we'll see what we could do.  very interesting section. I also like to know when can we expect ChatGPT to give image references from a for any search we do in it. So Arvind maximum in this month itself ChatGPT is introducing the feature where you could just send an image and ask something about that particular image. You could literally say hey, this is my you know cycle  And it's not working. Can you fix it? And this is a picture of a cycle. And we'll try and analyze the picture and say, hey, there's no oil or the screw is done like this. You need to do step by step process to fix this and all that. So the feature is coming very soon. Yes, Srinivas, the plug-ins, chargeable plug-ins are only available on the web. So Harshavardhan, yeah, it's not Milk Boy, it's Amazon Boy.  yeah milk we got at six o'clock this guy is amazon it's about apis okay so mauli we have a technical programmer called madhu so i'll just paste this thing to madhu  your question so maybe next week Madhu can take a session for technical prompting and you know for developers he basically talks about AI for developers thing so he would be the best person to answer this question although I could answer but I might not give the best answer when it comes to you know that I just forwarded I'm just forwarding this particular thing to Madhu and if we have any  answer from him before the class like I'll let you know. Okay, I think this plugins are available. Okay, dear Avinash sent. Okay, Aladi just give me a second.  Okay, I checked and I'll reply. Tech is moving too fast, not sure how we can catch up with the same pace as it is growing. Aditya, very true Aditya. One concern I have on this AI is, you know what's happening here right now? Yeah, oh shit, I made a little voice.  Yeah so what's happening in the world of AI right now Aditya is you know this you know when internet came or when computer came humanity has 20 to 30 years to develop and adapt to you know computers when internet came we have like maybe 10 years when mobiles came we have 6-7 years to adapt but now AI should be adapted in under a year  if not things are going to be little rough so my problem with the AI's faster development is humanity is not ready yet like how many people in the world would spend 10 minutes watching an advertisement of mine or any you know anything related to  know AI and LGBT and attend a three hours master class and then purchase a membership and then attend a class 6.30 in the morning just to prepare for the future. How many motivated individuals will be like this in the world? Like less than 0.5% in my opinion or 0.1% and I'm glad that these guys like you know like you guys  are doing it but then 99% of the world don't even know how AI works even on the surface level yet and and almost 50 to 75% of the humans need AI in some way in the need to use AI in some way in the next coming months itself in their work life and how is how is this how is this going to work out is bigger question for me adoption  Yeah, I am also concerned like you Aditya. Hopefully, you know, people will be upscaling faster. We don't have so much time. So let's see how it goes. Raj Kamal says, is this feature? Yes, it's only available for charge GPD 4.  I started to scratch the surface with Prompt Engineering and OpenAI in the coming stuff. And voice capability, how can we catch up? Yeah, as I told, be fast, spend some time, like don't waste time and invest your time on Prompt Engineering. Guys, just to close this entire session, I have like one good explanation of becoming a Prompt Engineer. I think I didn't say this. Okay, I think I said this in the masterclass already, but I'll just briefly say. There are two kinds of Prompt Engineering.  Technical Prompt Engineering, Non-Technical Prompt Engineering. 4 jobs out of 10 jobs right now in Prompt Engineering are Non-Technical and 6 are Technical. So when it comes to Non-Technical, these guys are the ones who will head already existing team in any company in using AI.  If you are a content writer and know prompt engineering, you will head a team of content writers who don't know about AI and you will use AI to build up prompts to get your content writing tasks done in your company. So, you are a prompt engineer, but not related to tech. You are just using it, you know, as a user.  and making the best, reaping the maximum benefits from AI in a team or as an individual. So, this is non-technical prompt engineering not related to coding. Companies need non-technical prompt engineers because  They want their existing team to be more productive and get things done. They might be VFX artist team where you will go and teach them how to use these tools and give them standard operating procedures and then kind of  be their manager like only when it comes to AI, right? So non AI team plus prompt engineering prompt engineers in that particular team will do read the maximum benefits. So that's one type of prompt engineers and this is going to be like very required in very near future. The name of prompt engineer can change it can be anything but the goal or what you do essentially in this particular role is very simple that you use AI  to increase the productivity in a company. You can be AI strategist, you can be a chief AI officer or anything, but what you do is this only. So, right now the name of this is prompt engineering, but in the future I am not sure, it can change. And then when it comes to technical prompt engineering, so people when it comes to technical prompt engineering, they either  So what they do is they kind of develop large language models like chat GPT or they develop chatbots, they develop AI tools, they know a bit of Python, they know a little bit of data science. So if you are someone who know a bit of Python, a bit of data science, not essentially required, data science is not essentially super required, but Python is 100% required because entire AI is built on Python right now because it's very easy and efficient.  So if you know this particular Python or a little bit of data science, you would be better become a technical prompt engineer who uses AI to build AI tools.  or who learns AI or machine learning in depth or data science in depth so that he or she would do in-depth building of apps. So that's the difference between technical and non-technical prompt engineering and then both will profile and in technical prompt engineering again like there are  different things where you will be a pure machine learning engineer or pure data scientist and do development or you will not do the development or anything just like data architects give you the whole plan to store the data and stuff like that you will not do  the basic coding part you'll only consult developers in your team to use AI and product make them more productive and get things faster. So even technical prompt engineering there are two things one is like you directly coding and developing AI apps fine-tuning using vector embeddings and stuff like that and creating a new deep neural network  and you know train it on the pre-processed data and build a large language model and stuff like that or you just help developers to meet to make product to be productive. Both are technical prompt engineers. How many of you understood now  that a difference with how many of you understood the future career of prompt engineering and would explain this to a 12 year old kid if someone comes to you and ask what is prompt engineering and what is the future of prompt engineering just say yes if you really understood it and could explain it to a 12 or 14 year old kid right now thanks thanks guys lot of you thanks a lot  Yeah, I know 0.1% is too generous. Mahindra Singh is asking, hi, this is Mahindra Singh, this is out of current session topic. I have attended September 23rd masterclass, have joined gold membership, but when I asked for the confirmation, you said it didn't come. And I tried again, so it was paid twice.  Yes, Mahendra Singh, I remember your name. Unfortunately, what happened is Mahendra Singh, we got two payments and you even, you know, instead of asking us, you gave, what is this, you went to Saif and asked that  What is this dispute? You created dispute and we refunded it. So maybe in a matter of few days you will get refund to your bank account. You would have asked us, we would have refunded you. Creating dispute will hurt our payment gateway. Stifle thing that we are scamming or something like that. But yeah, I understand you did it with no bad intention. You just felt like little, yeah. So you will get, we got two payments from you and one payment will be refunded very soon.  Like we already refunded it. You will get it very soon. Got it. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thanks. Thanks guys. As this is my first live meeting. I feel that Iron Man is talking with Jarvis. I'm not the Iron Man. I'm not even 1% of the capability that I need to have yet as a AI guy.  I'm still learning and writing like tens of pages each day about AI myself and then whatever the knowledge I have being on the top and exploring it little before than most of us just sharing that so yeah thanks but although thanks for the very positive comment Parvez. Hi last week I joined membership group I didn't get can okay Srimana can you just give me your registered email address  I am a BTech student. So, what happens is when you get into the membership, whoever got it into the membership last two months, you will receive an email in which you will ask you to fill a Google form. Once you fill the Google form, then you will get like you know access to the tools. So, yeah.  Madhavi, can you also drop your registered email address? Okay, so I'll just check with my team and we'll get back to you on this most probably will give you the access today itself. For the people who joined just on the Saturday, please be a little patient. I mean like an obviously a patient you didn't even ask but just saying just bear with us.  four to five maximum working days already one or two days is gone so so yeah guys any last one question Mahindra is asking me yeah so Mahindra there is this particular  There is this particular tool called their.  is an AI for that. It's essentially like a search engine for AI tools. What we essentially did is we researched like 6-7000 AI tools from this particular list, like literally tested them and made them into 325 good tools and then added them as AI tools arsenal here, right? Inside this AI tools arsenal, you will basically find  like you know all the solutions including walkthroughs for few videos so this is the AI tools arsenal you could go get few of your things here or if there is like if if the category is very new and very niche you might not find the whole thing here like you know you might not find the category here like you know so that's that's when you need to go to this thing and say  Search your use case here. What is your use case a tool to read through all companies policies? Am I reporting or day-to-day events? So you could just say I  something like this here and you will see if you have any AI tools here. So this one way you could find an AI tool for any use case yourself and on top of it you if you if your company's policies are like in a Google PDF or maybe as like a PDF you could literally upload a you know, you know your thing as a PDF to charge a PT and ask  any questions regarding your company's policies. There are tools where you could upload  entire pdf like there is this tool called ask your pdf you can make your company's policies as a pdf and upload pdf to ChatGPT and ask hey is october 2 holiday as my company you know as for my company's policies hey someone is doing this to me in my work in my team which is unfazed according to my company's policies what should i do  You know, and then they'll come, you know ChatGPT will search answer in that particular PDF and give it to you. So there are like you go to search engine plug-in search here and then type PDF you will get like 10 or 15 PDF readers, which you could.  utilize for the best use case. So, I hope that answer your question Mahendra. Thank you. I am from USA. I just want to know for USA people when is the best time to attend the classes. For the people in USA, I think this is the best time 6.30 in the morning. Usually  Classes don't last for two hours. If it is me my classes will last for one and a half hour. But since we have lot of people enrolled very recently, like there's a new batch intake. That's why there are a lot of questions that I am answering. So that's why it's taking two hours, but usually it's my two and a half hours if I'm not wrong or two hours. Yeah to us, but usually it's just one to one and a half hour is what my classes takes or most of the classes take and only programming classes sometimes go beyond three hours. So most of the time at 630 a.m.  Monday would be the best time for you as if people to attend according to your time zone Since it's Sunday also for you Sunday, you know Sunday morning if I'm not wrong or Sunday Saturday or whatever. Yeah, Sunday or Saturday. I feel the Google from on having Rajesh reach out to Oishi She's the group admin. I messaged but didn't get access to the Microsoft office. I  So, guys we will give you either NVIDIA or Microsoft Office. Canva is okay for everyone, but if you want only one will be given. If you did not get NVIDIA, you will get Microsoft or if you already got NVIDIA, you will not be able to give you Microsoft on top of it unfortunately.  Okay, I'm sorry GM Gagaru that you have this off problem. I'll just inform to my team and get this resolved today, most probably. Okay.  Srinivas Garu, I'll also get it done for you. I filled the form and message to OSU but did not get access to it. Thank you. Thank you. Sunday night in the UFC. Yes, Reshma. Hey, good morning. How many live classes will be there per week? One, like we'll have two sessions on the same topic. You can attend any one. I didn't get any link or anything for in video.  Sadhana, I'll ask Animesh to send all the people we give access to in video already to Animesh. I'll ask him to do that. Do we get any tools for free on the silver membership? Unfortunately, Santosh Kumar Kirti, silver members will not give you couple of courses plus AI tools. It's for the gold members exclusively.  But you can always upgrade your silver membership to gold membership and get this free tools for 18,000 rupees canva plus in video. Yeah, so guys, thanks a lot. I hope you learned something new today. Just give us honest feedback. If is there any improvement who could we could do here and if you feel this is an awesome class and like you learned something new and you're like you love the experience of us already.  It would be great if you give us a 5 star rating on Trustpilot here. How many of you are willing to give us a 5 star rating on Trustpilot? Just say yes. Harsha Vardhan says, Aag laga diya maja aara hai. Thank you Harsha Vardhan and I am sorry for my bad Hindi.  Yeah, so guys kindly give us 5 star rating. The reason I'm asking 5 star rating is not for me the team, you know, they're like 10 member team working in the back end to get all the all these things done and the one motivation for employees for my employees my team to have my is like whenever they see their work is making difference in other people's life. The motivation they will have then is more than any money. I could give I could give them like  2 lakh salary in India, but still the level of motivation they get when they see positive reviews for the work they've been doing in the back end. The energy they get is just amazing. So that's the reason like if you're talking to Oishi or Animesh talking kind and talking good will motivate them and this reviews will certainly put our entire team forward in giving you the best  more more better things like like we are planning so many bigger things in the next few months hopefully we'll get all things uh you know in a great direction thanks for all the support uh sadhana you are you'll get two two things canva and in video so we'll we'll give you both right so how so we got like eight yeses already for the reviews and i'm i'm like  I gave you the link already. So just try and give all the people who attended this and felt this is amazing. Just give us the five-star rating so that I'll keep doing the sessions myself every single week. Okay. Great guys. Thank you. See you again the next week the next Saturday or Monday, whatever you prefer. Thanks. Thanks a lot. Bye. Bye.  Bye have a great week ahead guys. Have a great day and a great week. Just start with a lot of energy. Bye.
