AI for UI/UX Designers

UI_UXIntro to the course

 Hello everyone, this is Anivesh Marth and welcome to a brand new course. So in this course I will teach you how to do UI UX design from scratch and on top of it I'll teach you how to use AI to speed up your workflow as much as 10x.  So this is just an introduction video to get the mindset right of how we are going to approach this course and what should you do in order to follow, keep on following the course. Right. So my theory with this course is AI will not take your job. So as a UI designer, you can breathe easy. If you want to go, even if you're not a UI designer right now, you want to go in this field and you are a bit suspicious if AI is going to take over or not.  so it won't take your job but people using AI people like you and me will take the job unfortunately because it's very simple business logic say you have this guy who is a professional UI designer with 10-20 years of experience even  Okay, he charges you some X amount of money and creates a mobile app in three months, four months or six months. Okay, complete app design in six months. And there is this other guy who has one or two years of experience or even let's say, not even experience was a fresher, but he knows AI, and he can create the design in less than like one month, one week.  and the charges are also very less. Even if you charge the same amount, you're getting your product fast. So considering the end result in both the cases are the same, which person would you hire? The person who gets the job done faster, cheaper, and more efficiently, right? So with this course, my theory is whatever UIS design principles are there, how to do design and everything I'll teach you.  And on top of it, I'll teach you how to differentiate yourself from a traditional designer and create a app UI of design, professional design in like, I'll show you a design which took me like three months to make right when AI and all wasn't there. So.  If I were to create that now, if I had a deadline of a week or two, how would I create that kind of app, that kind of design? That's what I'm going to teach you with this course. So going forward, first will be the UX module, which is the most important. I will recommend no one skip that module because that module does not have design. That module has user experience in it.  So how should you approach design before even like creating, setting on Figma, creating the design should think about what the user needs and how should I approach this problem? UI design is nothing but problem solving. So.  user is coming on your app for some XYZ reason, they should be able to do that thing in the least amount of time possible. Just for example, say you have an app, which is social media app, say Instagram, for example, you're going on Instagram to watch some videos, some reels, right? You open the Instagram app and the reel button is in the center. You click on it and boom, you just start watching it.  So it might look a very simple design choice, but they could have placed that button anywhere, but they decided to place it on the center of the screen, because right now that's the most important thing. So that's how UX works, that before even going to the drawing board, before even creating the wireframes, you need to decide what the user needs. And that takes almost the most amount of time, because you need to interview people, you need to do market research and all that.  I'll cut down your research time by like almost 5 to 10x by using AI tools, specialized AI tool to do exactly that. And after the UX module is finished, I'll create a module called Figma Basics or Design Basics, where I'll teach you how to actually work on Figma or any kind of design software, how to design, how to approach design in general, like overall how to do UI, UX in general, everything.  That module is very useful for anyone getting into UI design. If you're already an expert, you're very familiar with Figma, you can use it like with your eyes closed, then you can skip that module. That's completely fine. Now, after that, I'll teach you how to use AI tools to actually make the designs and make it very, very fast.  So hopefully you're excited for this. And if you are excited, I would really appreciate if you can comment down below. I am excited. Just that's it for me. That will be enough motivation for me. And as I promised, let me show you the app I built. Sorry, not the app, but the design for the app that I built over the course of three months for the WascoBot. I hope you already know about that.  where you give the AI some sort of question answers and based on that design an itinerary for you, right. So let me quickly open the Figma file and show you how big that Figma file actually looks like. So as you can see on my screen, this is literally the whole file that we have for this app. So this is file with all the  Like this is all the workflow, how each screen is connected with one another. And this is the overall design, a lot of screens, a lot of things going on. So let me play this app for you and show you how the actual UI works, right?  So this is like the splash screen for the app. And after the splash screen, this is like the home or sign up page, as you can see. So here, you will just log in or sign up. Let's say I'm a new user. I'm just signing up right now.  So once you sign up, you'll see this interface where you enter your email, your phone number, and this is as it is a four prototype, you cannot enter any values in it. So let's continue. And with each one, the circle moves around and it's cool. Here you'll enter the OTP and you set up a password.  And this is how the home screen looks like. So as you can see in the front, from the user perspective, if I'm visiting this app, I want to go somewhere. So that's why the search bar is in the first place. And here are the notifications.  Here is your profile and in the middle, it's just the itineraries that you have in the past and there is the chats that you have. So previously the idea was we will hire local experts who will create itinerary for you, but now AI has taken over everything. So here you can basically chat with the local experts where these are like the top local experts that we have. We are showcasing them here. Right. So everywhere, as you can see, this is basically the homepage for the app.  And this is like the FAQ section. So here are all the FAQs. Here are some testimonials.  and here are some pros or perks for going on trips with us and we are very much like focused towards sustainability that's why there's a separate section for it as well that for every trip you take we decrease the carbon footprint offset the carbon footprint for you.  so this is the overall app and the main feature obviously is the itinerary designer so if you click on this and you can select anywhere that you want so let's say I want to go to Dubai and then it will ask me from where are you traveling from so here I can search anything else so let's say I'm like  I am from Switzerland for example or I can auto detect as well. That is another UFS choice. Mostly in today's world you will see just click on auto detect and Google will detect your location and will just send your location info to the app. So after the continue they can add the date, which date they are taking off and how many days they want to go.  there and they can select even if the date is firm or not. So now I will just speed run the rest of it. So as these are pretty self explanatory, so let me just speed run through it. This is a pretty cool module and here as you can see,  We added this component that it will make user feel okay. So I have saved 10 hours till now. So we have search 800 website, handpicked three best ones for you. And like this, we can have like the selectors of who is joining you.  And there we go with how many people are there. So we made another creative decision that I want to show that the number of people that are coming in that many skydivers are in there in the sky. So this is how it works. And if there is more than four, you can just enter the number here.  And here is the age group. Right. So this is, and this is basically like a looping animation in the background of it. So making the user experience feel more like engaging overall. Right. So let me go through this funnel real quick.  So as you can see, this bar is just keeps on growing as we reach towards the end of the funnel.  So this is another implementation of the same psychology. How much they increase the budget, that many elements will come into the illustrations. So if they are in the lowest budget, there is just one bag. If they are like in 5,000, there are some coins there. If they are at 7,000, there is the credit card. And if at 10,000, there is a gift. So like this, it's arranged.  and at the end you have to pay $200 to get your itinerary design and so we made decision that you can scroll down so we added more details to convince the user why is it worth it right so here is all the breakdown and all that the value is this much today is 80% off so  all this while keeping the payment methods in the front of the user so they can anytime make the payment they won't have to scroll all the way down to make the payment right so let's say i want to pay through paypal and can continue from here and now after they paid this is like the congratulation screen that you have paid successfully and this is the preview of the itinerary that you will get  Here is the main use case of this app where you can actually see the itinerary. First of all, we have a really good map which shows you all the places that you will be visiting by this itinerary.  One thing that most travelers complain about, we found it from our user research. As I told you, user research is very important. So they always forget the documents that they require, right? So we have all the documents where they can, like all in one place. From documents, visa, car rental info, every single thing. So like this. And here is the main itinerary part.  So, here you can see pre-holiday, holiday and post-holiday holiday. This is just to make it more simplified for the user to visit and here is the date selector as well. Which date they want to visit, they can easily see it and whatever places they have already visited are marked with yellow and whatever places are left  are I think grey. So like this the whole color choice works and to highlight some activities we use thread color.  So like this, the whole itinerary is there. And here is the post holiday. It's basically after the trip, how would you rate your experience? Right. We can also tip the person who designed your itinerary. And here is the image from our side. You can upload an image, a video from our side also.  and here is the pre-holiday phase also where you will see all the things which you have to book right the all the rides and all the hotels and here is the chat so you can chat with the person who designed your itinerary as  Apart from this, there are several other important pages where like this is my itinerary page. You can see all the itineraries that you have designed in the past. Here is the notification panel. So you can either swipe to remove this. So as you can see, I created this very soothing animation where when you swipe it down, it will just shrink and go away. So it will feel good and like this. And you can also clear all everything with one go.  And apart from this, I think that's it for the app and here you can also ask for support and here is your profile.  So all your save payment info and everything in just one place. All right. And apart from all this, there are also some pages, for example, the profiles of the designers also. So those are other pages and all this also has the web interface as well. So tell me, what do you think about this design? And if you're impressed by it, if you're like already an UX designer, you can rate me. Tell me, what do you think? How is the quality of the design?  And hopefully this is what you're excited of for UI design, that this kind of result, which used to take close to three, four months to create, like just one year back, you can just create in one week or two right now, right? Because all your tedious tasks like user research and everything is taken care of with AI.  So yeah, if you are excited or comment, I am excited. That would be really great for me. And as always, if you have any doubts throughout this series, you can contact me on WhatsApp. I'm admin in the group. So you can just search up my name and you can contact me there. In case I'm not able to respond, I might be off or on a vacation. Then you can contact me on LinkedIn or Instagram.  So this is my LinkedIn profile. You can just search my name Animesh Mahato and In case you're not on LinkedIn, you're on Instagram. You can search Animesh Designs and this is my Instagram profile. So hopefully you will find this series helpful and 

Idea Generation

 Hey everyone, congratulations on making it past the introduction video. So in this video, I will show you how to generate the idea that you're gonna like create a design for. Because at the end of the day, the UI UX is basically problem solving or any sort of design is just problem solving, right? So you need a problem to practice on it first. So I'll give you the best ways to get the problem that you're looking for for your next design.  So one method that, uh, is recently very much like, uh, famous and that I'm going to teach you as well is generating the idea from chat GPT itself. So this is the prompt that I've been using to generate practice problems or any other sort of ideas that we can create designs on. So as you can see, this is the.  prompt, please generate a list of innovative and potentially market disrupting mobile app ideas. You can replace the mobile apps if you are looking for web apps, if you are looking for websites, anything. And then focus on emerging technologies like AI, AR, VR, IoT and blockchain.  So, these are the fields that I am most interested in right now on creating designs. But if you are interested in something else, you can always change these topics around. So, this is just like a prompt template. You can change few things here and there to generate new ideas. So, consider diverse fields such as healthcare, education, finance, sustainability and entertainment.  So this line is added intentionally because what happens is when you ask chatgpt for some ideas, it will just pick one or two niches and just create 10 ideas for you, right? So instead of, so that it doesn't do that, we want it to diversify so that we have a good amount of options to pick from.  So, and the next line is each idea should be unique, addressing a specific problem or a need in society. So, this is the most important part that the problem that we are solving should be worth solving, right. So, that's why this line is there. Also, consider user experience feasibility and potential for positive social impact.  So this is overall the prompt that I will be using today. And I'll show you one bonus method to get design briefs as well. But that method is being used for the last 5-10 years. But at the end of the day, it's good to know more than one way to generate ideas, right? So let's head to ChatGPT and let's put in our prompt and let's see the results that we get. So here we are in ChatGPT and as you can see, this is our prompt.  So let's paste it and let's see what kind of ideas we get.  So first idea is Healthcare AI Powered Diagnostic Assistant. Next one is Educational AR Interactive Learning Platform. So I think this is really relevant for the future as Facebook has released MetaQuest 3, which is like an AR-based VR headset, which you can actually view things around in your surrounding. So AR has immense potential in the future.  If you are looking for like getting placed in AI companies, it's a very good idea. It's an educational one. Then we have a finance blockchain based micro investment app, sustainability, IOT integration cycle, guide, entertainment, we are social networking, mental health, AI driven therapy companion. This is actually a good idea because in today's day and age, people are more lonely than ever. It is counterintuitive that looking at that, we never had such fast communication, but  With that, the loneliness in the society has even increased even more because the individuality has increased. So, this is something we can maybe try to work on. So, probably I will pick this one for this series. Agriculture, IoT crop management system, tourism, fitness, elderly care.  So according to me, I think let's create a mental health app where it's not like AI driven, but where you'll have various companions where you can practice mental health together. So I'll write down a brief for that, a short brief. And in the next video, I'll show you what is that prompt looking like.  So this is the way you can generate this idea. You'll find this prompt in the video description. And if you have any doubts, you can always ask me in the comments. And this is one way to generate ideas like which is recently been used a lot. There is another way that is by using this website.  fake clients so here this is like every designer in the last five years they know about this website here you can go and ask for any kind of design and you'll just generate a brief for you so like here is as you can see my name is freda i'm looking for user interface designer design an image slider which would look work with you so like this you can design small small things uh by taking ideas from this website the only drawback is  I don't think they are powered with AI, so the ideas will be pretty redundant. If you use it for 100-200 times, you will probably start getting the same results. So, yeah, those are the two ways you can generate the idea. And after this, the next video is going to be the most important where we are gonna talk about user research and other UX components. So, I hope you are excited for the next video and let's move on to 

UX Research with using AI

 Hey there everyone this is Animesh back again and in the last video we decided that the idea we're going to go through is the mental health app right so it was like an AI powered app so I edited the idea a bit and made it more humanized like if you if you read the idea description then you will understand so as you can see mental wellness companion an app focused on mental health  offering mood tracking, stress relieving activities, mindfulness exercises and connecting users with mental health professionals for support. So, as you can see the AI component is still there, the mood tracking, the mental health tracking and all that which is powered by AI is still there.  But on top of it, there are some mental health professionals also available which you can look back on if you are facing any problems, that is. So I think with AI, it is more humanized now. I think that's how things should be that with on top of AI, there should be some human component so that we don't feel alienated all of a sudden. Right. And at the end of the day, it's about mental health.  So this is my idea for this. And now I'll tell you how we can do user research in less than like few hours. That is user research usually takes about a couple of months, like two, three months. If you're doing proper user research, if you're interviewing hundreds and hundreds of people and doing a lot of research, but there is one tool that we will use to cut down that time to even one day or two days, if you're trying to spend more time on the user research part.  So the research and discovery will use two tools, chat GPT and Coco AI. So Coco AI is like a Figma plugin, which you can use to do, generate user brief, user persona and everything. So without wasting any time, let me show you the landing page and then you'll understand what it's for.  So as you can see, they can generate UX writing, interviews, scripts, and a lot of things which are involved in the user research, user experience part of the design. So as you can see, they are professional, like they're used by professional at these big companies, right? And it's like $7 a month. And I think it's very reasonably priced compared to the cost it goes into user research.  So let me show you how to use this tool as well inside of Figma. So to create a new Figma, to use this tool, you need to create a Figma account. Let me show you what is Figma. So Figma is like an interface design tool where you can use it to design interface for mobile apps,  for websites and even you can design social media post with it. So some of the carousel that I create for Avinash on his LinkedIn or Instagram, I have used just Figma for that because Figma's interface of managing test is really good.  So I've been using Figma for more than, I think, two years now and it just keeps getting better. So if you haven't used Figma ever, I will love if you can give it a try because it's, I think, free to start with and you can do a lot of things for free as well. And if you're a student, you can get like a student membership also. I don't know if they continue it or not, but you can always check if a student or teacher, you'll get some discount on top of it.  So as you can see, they have a lot of amazing features and Figma's best thing, I would say, is the availability of third party plugins. So the Coco AI in itself, you can use inside of Figma. While you are designing on the left side, you can do user research on the right side. I don't recommend doing that at the same time, but yeah, you can do that and go crazy with it.  So let me show you how to actually use Figma in your design, like how to actually use Figma in your design process and use CocoAI inside of Figma to do user research. So to create a Figma account, you just have to go to Figma.com. Inside of Figma, you'll have to create an account. Once you have created this account,  You will have to create a design file. As you can see on top, right here, a click on the design file. And this is a fresh design file that we're going to use to design this app. Okay. So I would say always when you create a design, just like rename the file because otherwise you'll forget it. So I'll rename it as mental health.  tab for now and here there are pages so first page i always devote to research and user experience so i'll just say ufs that's it now that i have a clean slate how do i use the cocoa app plugin  You have to go and click on the plugins here in the resources tab. And here is the second, there is a plugins. So here we'll just search Coco.ai. So this is the plugin I was talking about Coco.ai. Let's run this plugin. And once you use it for the first time, it will be free for the first seven days. So you can use it freely as you want to. There are a lot of awesome features here, but the ones that are most useful, I'll show you how to use those.  So the discovery questionnaire is basically like a questionnaire, which you send to the client to ask for what they're exactly looking for. So whenever you get a new project, you should always do this, that you should send client a very good lengthy questionnaire, so that you can know every single detail that they're looking for in the project. So that the project guidelines are clear from the start.  So you can do it for three things, a feature, a web or mobile application or a website or landing page. So as we are doing it for the mobile application, we can use it to generate it. So here you can see there are a lot of questions that are getting generated. We'll go through them one by one. Once they're all the, all the features I've shown you.  But the best part of this plugin is once the generation has been complete, it will create a frame in the background. So that like, like this, so that you can always go back to it and see what are the questions. So this is the client discovery part. Let's go on the next step, which is a design brief.  So sometimes what will happen is the client will give you a very basic brief. Like I want an app with a dark user interface. I want an app with like classic fonts like this, right. Which is very vague and not helpful at all. So to create a brief, which is more detailed and you can show it to the client as well, that this is the approach I'm going with.  Do you think this is a good approach to like look at this project? So for that, you have to just answer two questions. What is the project information and the persona demographic that is. So the persona demographic is not like compulsory, but it's always good to add more information for the AI. So for the project information, I'll just paste in the description that we had for the app idea, which is  this, an app focused on mental health, offering mood tracking, stress-relieving activities, mindfulness exercises, and connecting users with mental health professionals for support. So, looking at this idea, according to me, I think an age group of 20 to 50 years old will be interested in this kind of an app. So, for the demographical, simply say the target audience is  So this is the target audience that I think will be interesting to the app. A target audience is 20 to 50 year old male and female employed in high stress jobs roles or in general feel like their mental health is on decline.  So I think the overall gist is good. If you are struggling a bit for this, you can always just chat GPT and ask what should be the user persona for this kind of an app. So once we have these two questions answered, we can just click on generate. It will take some time and do its magic. So let's wait for a while. So if I started generating a very detailed brief, let's wait for it to generate. And as you can see in the background, we already have the brief.  So let's move on to the next feature, which is user interview. So let's say you want to go and interview your users, right? And you are like, you have five to eight questions, but you think if the question is more detailed, then the answers you'll get will be more high quality, right? The more data points, the better you can make a decision. So this feature lets you do exactly that.  So here, as you can see the personal demographic, it has just used it from the last answer. And why and how the persona interact with the product and service. Okay. So why would the user use your product? So, so as you can see, I have added a few questions here and.  So this is what is the scenario? Why would the person interact with your app? So for that, I've answered whenever they feel like their mental health is on a decline, they can track and improve their mental health by our app or consult with the best professionals so that they can get the best solution.  On top of it, you will have to give some topics what the AI should ask a question on. So like, do you feel like the mental health is on a decline? Does your mental health have negative impact on productivity? The question around mental health and apps. So I think one good question can be other one that what are the  So this one can be used as like a competitor analysis that what other solutions are there in the market. So with all these questions answered, let's generate the user interview questions. So the question has been generated in the background. We'll look at it after the next feature. So.  After user interview, this one is a good, but not useful right now. So this is a very important like, um, feature for this app is the user persona generator. So here you'll just add your target audience and your scenario and just generate it.  So it will create user personas for you, which is one of the most important part of UX design, where you know what your user is like, then you can design a much better app. So for example, you are designing an app for like 14 year old, you'll add a lot of colors. If you're designing a app for 50 year old, you'll try to make it a bit less like, less like a rainbow, but more decent and modern.  So with that in mind, the user personas are one of the most important things you can ever use in a UX design. And this user journey mapping is another important feature and where we're gonna use the same values that we entered the last time and generate. Once all these are generated, I'll tell you how is this event relevant. Why shouldn't you just go ahead and start designing from the first? Why do you need to think so much?  So our user journey has also been created. And these two options are also very good, but not as useful as others in this phase of the design. So I'm going to close the app now, and I'm going to explain to you why did we even need to do all this.  So, as a beginner New York designer, I just got the idea of the Vosco that asked me to create a design. I just went ahead and created the design in Photoshop or Adobe XD, I think. And after creating the whole design, after a few days or a week, you know what happened? The design just got rejected because  I did not do any kind of user research. The app that I created first was completely opposite of what we are looking for. So that is why before going and starting to design, you need to think about who is going to even use the app and how can you make their experience of using the app very, very good. Because I'll give you some examples. So I think most of you will have heard about CredApp.  So the Create app, when it was released, it was said to have one of the best user interface design, and which people just love. Because the amount of effort they put into thinking about how the user is going to use the app, that's why people really like the Create's user interface. Another good example, what I would say, Amazon versus Flipkart.  So I don't know why, but Amazon being a billion dollar company, Flipkart has a better user interface than them. So even though Flipkart doesn't have such good service, I use Amazon every day, but I wish Amazon had a good interface like Flipkart, because I think that's why in the last one year, they are creating a lot of updates, which is making it a bit better for the user to use the app.  So that's all about why it is important to use like user research and user experience development before doing into the UI. So now that we have all the pieces of the puzzle, let's go through one by one for all of them and let's see how they are delivered. So first of all, this one is something you will send to your client.  where you have all the question that why what is the motivation behind the project and why what is the why for this project this is one of the best and one of very strong questions that will answer like 90% of the doubts because sometimes the like goal is just to make money sometimes the goal is to fix some big problem like world hunger like this there are a lot of question which will give you a lot more clarity on how to approach this project  because if you have been a designer in the past even if you know a little bit of design you know there are 100 ways to achieve the same design or same result but out of the 100 I think hardly 5 will be right so to get the probability higher to that 5  And like the top 5% of the ideas, you need to do this part for the start. And previously people used to procrastinate on the user experience part, because it used to take a lot of time because we need to really go out there and interview the real users. But now everything is AI. So you don't have to do all that.  So this is something you'll send it to your client. Next is this design brief, which is for your own clarity. If you are a designer that, how should you approach the design? If you're a UX designer, you are sending it to UI person, the UI designer, you can use this to send it back. So this is a design brief and a clear roadmap, guiding design processes, project overview, project name, client, target audience, project goals.  provide a user-friendly interface for move tracking and journaling. So the journaling idea we didn't have at first, but now that we've showed it's a good insight that we can have a journaling and offer a variety of stress-relieving activities like this, there are a lot of very good ideas in the project goals.  In the project constraints, we'll have compliance with privacy regulation, integration with existing mental health services platforms, compatibility with iOS and Android, accessibility design for users with disabilities. So for example, there is someone who is deaf or who is blind. For those kind of users, there are a few things that you can do in your app and make it a much more  user-friendly experience for those kind of people and people really appreciate if you implement those in your design. So having that as a project constraint is a pretty good thing. Project Assumption. Users will be willing to share personal data for more tracking.  So this, I hope you're getting the point of it that why is this like a worth it process to do before designing? Because when you know that you have certain things given to you or certain things you cannot go beyond, then you have a very clear roadmap. So for example, the user will be giving a willing to share the personal data for more tracking.  So when you download a sleep app, you don't say to this, don't track my sleep, right? You download it for the same thing. That's why when we download a mood tracking app, we will give it access to our other things, for example, fitness and all that. We can track our mood, our heart rate and all that to understand us better. So we have all this data that we can create an app which is better user interface.  They are competitor, headspace, calm, top, space, better club and San Willem. So without doing much like Googling, we just caught all the competitors in one single place.  So I hope this alone is worth it for the price of the plugin. And this is the success criteria. What will make this project a success? Higher end engagement and retention rates. Relevant user feedback. Increased user satisfaction. Successful integration with mental health professionals.  meeting privacy and security guidelines. There are a lot of very good things that this brief has provided. So if I give a brief to a user, like how the client provides a brief, I already told you, make this class C or make the font look this way and design look this way. Those are important, but those are like creative decision, the  person who is designing the app should make. What brief should be like is like this, where you have end goal, how you're going to achieve the goal is on you, the designer. So, and here is the estimate budget and timeline. After that, this is the user interview question, what we are asking for the user. So how would you describe your current mental health?  Have you noticed any changes in your mental health recently? Like this, there are a lot of useful questions which will give us a lot of clarity for doing user interviews. Whereas if I sit down, I can hardly come up with 10 questions. This came up with like, I think 20 questions or something in like less than two minutes. So, and the questions are also very, very good. They can get a lot better with a single question.  Now with the user persona, this is one of the best things you can expect from this tool because the user persona, it generates a very on point. So let's have a look at the user persona it generated. So Alexis is our user. The target audience is 25 year old, the same description.  Taking care of my mental health is my priority. Use of gold. Track and monitor my mental health. Improve my mental well-being. Reduce my stress and anxiety. Finding coping mechanisms for work-related stress. Learn relaxation techniques.  These are like the user goal, what the user want to achieve and these are user needs. What do they need? A user-friendly app, track mental health. I think everyone will say this is okay, this is pretty straightforward. Let's see other ones. Guidance on improving mental well-being, affecting stress management technique.  work like balance strategies, access to relaxation, access to exercises, confidence and privacy, professional advice and guidance, information of mental health resources, supportive community and motivational content. A lot of things that the user should like, it's not good to have, but it's like a very like need of the user. And here is the motivation. Why would the user download your app compared to any of your competitors?  So maintaining healthy work-life balance, you can maybe differentiate yourself to the appeal to the working class and show that we help you manage work stress. Like that, we have burnout and all that. You have some blank ones also, so that you can add your own ideas there as well.  So these are the frustrations of the user, feeling overwhelmed by work demands. These are the tasks, daily mood and emotions, set reminders, practice mindfulness exercises. These are the opportunities. Access to mental health professionals, online therapy sessions, virtual support groups. So I hope you get the point of  doing this user persona that you know A to Z about the user. Now you can design an app which fulfills all, like the 90% of it, and your app is like a banger. So that's the best part when you have a clear user persona. And this is the user journey where you will see the various phrases where there is awareness, consideration, decision, action, and retention, and advocacy.  And here are the tasks, mindsets, pain points and opportunities.  So let me go through some of them, small insights here and there, because the video is already very long. I want to give you the most value. So I don't care what the length, but I want to make it like a overall very good, like a compilation of what all the user research part is. Why is it important? And why it is so important that you use AI tools right now, because doing this much user research will take you  even like in the most efficient way at least a month or two right and you did that sitting here less than 10 minutes so i hope that's crazy in itself  They recognize signs of declining mental health. Like why would the user go and buy and download your app? So first is they will be aware of their own problem that they'll see, okay, my mental health is on a decline. I'm feeling frustrated all the time. Then they'll consider, they'll research different mental health apps. They'll see, okay, let's see what are the things, what are the apps that we can fix.  It's like me, like when I don't get good sleep, I just search for an app that will give me good sleep. When I'm not able to exercise well, I see an app like that. Many people are there who will just say, okay, I have this problem in my life. Let me see the app store or play store if there is any app for that. So after that, the decision.  Why would they decide all of that? So reading reviews and ratings, comparing features and functionalities, considering the cost and the pricing, these are pretty solid points right there. So it's like purchasing something from Amazon. Why would you purchase? You'll see that, okay, this is reasonably priced.  The users who have bought this in the past are feeling good about it. Like this, in the app, there are various components to making this good decision. Here are all of them. You can go through them one by one. And then the action. They'll download the app from App Store, create an account, set up a profile, explore the app features, track daily moods and emotions, and record sleep patterns, participate in guided meditation, and join support groups.  And then there is the retention. So let's say they downloaded the app. They used it for one day. Why would they use it for a week? And here you can see continuing to use the app regularly, setting goals and tracking progress, exploring new features and updates, participation in community forums, discussions, providing feedback, suggestions, referring to the app, friends and family. So if you like what it is trying to say to you, you build a community around your app that will keep the people around. The app in itself won't keep the people.  because they are here for mental health. So if there are community events going on here and there, people are able to interact, people are able to feel the difference in their mental health, then they will be retained for a longer time. Advocates share power positive with experience and with app and social media. So this whole life cycle of a consumer, we got like less than five. So let me sum it up very fast.  So let's say I'm the user, I'm Alexis, okay. I'm Alexis, for example, I feel like, okay, I'm getting more stressed day by day. Let me see, I think I have a problem. So I am aware now.  Now I'm considering what should I do? Should I go to therapy? Let's see if there is an app or let me call someone to ask for it. What is the easiest? Let me download an app. So I go to the app store and I decide to download the app that we're building.  Then in the action phase, I just do whatever the app asks me to do, like wake up, meditate, communicate with the therapist on the app, do sleep tracking, all that. I feel okay, this is working for me. So I retained with the app for like six months.  After six months, someone just said to me, oh, wow, you are so happy all the time. What's the secret? And I say, I downloaded this app. This app changed my life. And that's advocacy right there. So all the phases that the user will go through in detail in front of your eyes.  And that's the only the task that I've read out. There are mindsets, the pain points, the opportunities that you'll get. Everything is there in this one single chart. And I think this one single chart itself will, if you hire an agency or someone to do user research for you in this kind of detail, where they will charge you at least $500 to $1,000.  And you just get it from an AI tool by setting 10 minutes. So I hope you are getting the point of why user experience research is so much more important. Not more important, but as important as I think then the UI research, the UI design.  So I hope you found this video helpful. And if you have any kind of doubts about how to use this app, how to create a good user persona, you can always ask me in the comments, so you can message me on WhatsApp. I'm an admin, so you can just search my name, Animesh Mahato and message me there. In case I'm not able to answer, I might be off on a vacation, so you can ask me the same question on  Instagram or LinkedIn. I'm available there all the time. So this is my Instagram. You can search Animesh Designs. And if you're not on Instagram, you can also search my name on LinkedIn, Animesh Mahato. And you can message me there. I'll always respond. So I hope you enjoyed this video. And this video explained to you the value of the user research and UX design. So I'll meet you in the next video. Till then, have a really good day and take care. 

Basics Intro_Video4.mp4
 Hey everyone, first of all congrats for making it this far and I just wanted to make a quick video introducing what we are gonna talk about in this module and why is this important. So this module is going to be all about the basics, the Figma basics and the design basics.  So if you are someone who is just starting out with design or UI UX design, I would really recommend to watch this full module very carefully. But if you are someone who is already like good in designing and you, if you, uh, after a few videos, if you think it's already stuff that you know, you can choose to skip it. But for all the people who are beginners, uh, this module is one of the most important. So, uh, must watch it till the end.  So that's it. Let's start this module without wasting any more time. 

Figma Basics

 So in this video, we're going to talk about Figma basics. So Figma is one of the most famous design software in the UI UX space right now. There are a few competitors, but I don't think any of them are as close as the feature plus the pricing of this tool, because there are a few competitors like Adobe XT, which is good, but I don't think it's that good if you are trying to collaborate with other people.  Adobe recently acquired Figma, so probably they will merge both of them and bring the best of both worlds. Another alternative is Sketch. Some traditional designers who are designing for a very long time prefer Sketch. It's a paid software, so I don't really recommend it for beginners. And if you're a beginner, you want to just start out, I would really recommend Figma because it's free to start with.  So now that we know why we are choosing Figma for this design process, let's get ahead and talk about how you can optimize your Figma workflow and how to use all those tools. So this will be in several parts. First, we'll be seeing what are the tools and how to use them most effectively.  Then we're going to see what are components, which is one of the most important parts of UI design and variables. This is just launched, I think the last year when Figma was acquired by Adobe. And this is, I think, a paid feature. So if you're on a paid plan only, you can use variables. And there are some super useful plugins that I really like. I'm going to show you those as well and speed up your workload with shortcuts. There are a few shortcuts, if you know, you can just.  like fly around on Figma without using your mouse too much and the best practice is how you should like use Figma or should approach it so that you can get the best output in the least possible time and then at the end my personal workflow and this is a part where is it later after the design basics part but I'll teach you how I personally use Figma to design an app from scratch  So let's get started and first let's see the tools. So in the next video, you will see how we are going to use tools and what tools that Figma has. 

Figma Controls

 So we are back again in our design file. I've created a new page to showcase all the tools. On the right left side, you will see all the pages and then you can just create a new page. If it's hidden, it will be probably like this. Just open this toggle and you can see all the pages.  So, let me show you the interface and explain you from top to bottom what each place does. So, on the top, your part practically has the tool menu. On the left side, you will have the layers here and the pages here and the assets here. So, assets are like components. I'll explain you that also. And on the right side, you will see all the controls for everything. So, colors, text and effects, everything on the right side.  And the right side, you also have another important menu that is prototype, where you design all the interaction between the screens that your user will go through. So let's start with the toolbar first. In this small Figma icon, you can select a lot of options out there. So first of all, back to files is just like a back button to your Figma home page.  Quick captions is like something recently added and you can just use the shortcut command at slash and just search whatever you want to. And I just search it here, whatever plugins I want to use. So anything that can be done in one click, it'll show up there.  And here in the file, you will see a new design file. Basically the same menu you get in every design software. So I'll just go through it very quickly. So in create a new design file, you can create a FigJam file. So if you don't know what FigJam is, it's like a brainstorming tool, which you can use to brainstorm with your teams, take notes and get feedback.  new from sketch file so as I told you there is a software called sketch which is also used to design so they have a you can open the sketch file here also you can place an image save as a local copy so if you want to make a local copy of the design document it is download directly out from here but what I like to use is  this version history. So you can save any instance of your complete file as a version history. So let me, for example, let me just add today's date, 22nd November, 2023, or something like that. And then you can describe whatever you want to like, whatever you want yourself to know in the future that this is what I did this day. So created tools page, something like this. So  like this you can save and go back to that version anytime you want by using the other option where it's called show version history so it will show you whatever version history are there that like this is the title that I chose so like this you will get all the same titles that you have  Then we have edit where we have basic undo, redo, all that kind of stuff, which you can directly access by using shortcuts. The shortcuts would just tell you all the shortcuts that there are. And in the view, you will see a lot of options. For example, like you, there is something called a grid. So for example, if we create this, for example, this, this is called a frame. And if I add a grid here, you will see, this is a grid. You can just enable or disable it by using shortcuts and all.  So, that's the view part and this is basically like just small, small things like zooming in, zooming out, like that. After that, we have the object where it is like the component, whatever you want to do with components is in the object thing.  and like you can collapse layers you can merge images all that stuff in the text you will get all the control from the right as well and arrange vector plugins basically everything in the whole software is just concentrated here also so if you want you can just go and use it  Honestly, I hardly use it like 15% of the times that too when I do, I just use it for version history because there is no other way to access it. Most of the things which are here, you can access outside of it also. And those are much quicker way to access them.  So now that we know what the main menu does, let's see what this move tool does. So here are basically two tools. You can click on this toggle, you can see move and scale. So to demonstrate what move and scale does is, let me draw a rectangle first. So what move will do is just, if you click and drag it, it will just move the object, right? And if you just, you can just select it also. And what scale does is it,  scales down or scales up the object proportionately so if we just use this it will scale up and scale down proportionately right whereas if you use the move tool you might get some discrepancy here  So it might get more wide and more tall if you would try to adjust it like this. You can still adjust it proportionally by clicking and holding shift. So it will now scale up or scale down proportionately. But if you don't want to do all that, you can just click on K and you will see this double arrow, right? This will basically just scale proportionately. And you can also here add values, how much you want to scale it by.  and you can see where it scales from also. So, now that we know what the move and the scale tool does, let's move on to the frame tool. This is one of the most important and most useful parts of Figma. So, I would say, like, give most attention to this part because this is one of the most useful part, just this one. These two are not that important, but just this one. So, every single thing you will do in Figma will be almost like a frame.  So let's say I want to draw a rectangle, right? So instead of going and drawing a rectangle, it's much better to create a frame of shape of a rectangle. Let me show you what I mean. So let's say I want to create a frame. I just created a frame. It's like a rectangle only, but it has some unique properties.  What are the unique properties? You can drag and drop images into it. You can drag and drop anything into it. It will just contain it by itself. For example, I draw a rectangle on the side for comparison. Okay. And I have this circle here, a red circle.  I want to quickly make something where the red circle is on the corner of it. So I just drag and drop here and it just snaps here. That's all and it just makes it feel like it's meant to be there. Whereas in the rectangle, what you have to do is, first of all, it won't align automatically.  manually drag this over it or you shortcut to get this over it then you have to mask it or something to make it work. So if you are creating a layout of a phone or layout of a device always create a frame not a rectangle because everything you drop inside of it it will just contain it and you can use another main thing that is called auto layout  and that I'll talk about it later also because that is one of the best thing that's why I use Figma more than Photoshop now just because auto layout so that's how you know that frames are very important things so now that we know frames are important let's move on to the next topic  so next up we have the section tool section tool okay so what this section does is like a it's like a frame of a frame so for example you have like five different frames okay each one with some different properties okay for example we have three different frames and we have three other frames which belong to some other app okay which have some other properties for example let's make it blue  Okay, these are two types of frames. We want to segregate them because if someone comes into the file, they say, okay, they will be a bit confused what each one represent. So you can use a section to differentiate between them. So you can just draw a section over your frames and this section can be of any color. Let's make it a bit darker so that we know. And this section just be called the red app. And this section you can just call as the green app.  So tell me which one is more clear, the past one or this version. So that's all the use of sections. And after the section, you have the slice tool, basically used to slice things, like hardly used it ever, but it's good to have the slice tool. You can use it as a slice tool in the Photoshop app to slice frames into different parts.  then we have the circle or basically the shape tool so here you have the rectangle, you have the line, you have the arrow a circle, a polygon, a star so for example we draw a star you can just click and hold it and this way it will be a bit arbitrary you can drag freeform and if you want to make it proportional just click and hold shift while you draw it and it will draw a proportional star  So along with this, we have the pen tool, so you can use it like a, to draw anything. For example, say on draw triangle and like this, you can draw various objects with the pen tool and pencil tool is like a free form thing. You can just do anything. Let me increase the width.  So like this you can draw anything and with the pencil too.  And after that you have the text tool. So you can type any kind of text from it. So for example, I want to add freedom with AI. You might be thinking why everything is so small because we are enlarged. Like we have a really huge shapes here. So that's the reason, but let me increase the size to somewhat like 80 or something so that you can see. Okay. Let's decrease sizes of these massive objects.  And for this, you can use the tool I told you about earlier. That is the scale tool. And everything will be made smaller proportionately. So now that you can see our tool, it's much more compatible in sizes. Still it's massive. Like this frame itself is like 3000 pixels wide. So let's make it even smaller.  smaller by 0.5. I think this is better. Yeah. Now you can see the text also. So here we can see, this is the use of text tool. So you can type text very simple from a text tool. Then we have the components tab where all the components you create will be stored here and plugins.  All the plugins you have used or used in the past will be stored here and the widgets. So widgets are like fun components you can use to enhance your workflow. You can use sticky notes, you can create timers and all that. You can create polls as well. So for example, I want to add some sort of sticker here. So we'll just add a sticker like this.  So it's like accessing FigJam inside of Figma. So this is the components tab. It is the hand tool. You can just move around. So right now I was moving around by using this shortcut. So I was just holding space and then just moving around. This automatically selects the move tool whenever any other tool is selected. Then we have the comment. So.  For example, someone comes in the file, they can just go here and add a comment. Again, make this green. And as a designer, you will see it like this. When you click on it, you will see the description of the comment. So this is all the tools in the toolbar. In the center, you will see the main folder your file is in. Right now it's in the drafts and here is the file name.  Here you will see all the people who are like present in a file. You will see only me right now, but anyone, if other than me was in the file, their profile will also come here. So another thing, let's say five people are there on the file. Five people want you to explain the app to them. You can just click and spotlight me. So every other person's window will change to your window and whatever you show them, that's how their Figma will also work.  And here we have the share button. So we can share it to anyone we want. We can give them individual access or we can make the link public as well. So anyone with the link can view, can edit anything they want. You can also set a password here and publish design also. And this is the recently added thing. So this is one of the craziest part of Figma that makes it an even better deal.  Now, whatever you design can just toggle this menu on and the developer will see every single thing as like a developer's point of view. So like here you will see ready for dev. Like for example, I'm working on this app. I created this screen and this is all dev.  So the developer, I don't need to tell the developer individually and just mark it as ready for dev. And whenever the dev comes in, they will see on the left side of their screen that, okay, these frames are done. Let me work on this. So how cool is that? You can just directly mark and move forward without much hassle of marking it for like sending to developer, getting back and all that stuff.  So, this toggle is only for developers, that is, if you are not a developer, you can just turn this off. And this play button, what it does is, it basically, whatever prototype you create, it will play that prototype in the flow that you wish for.  And here you can see the scale that we are at. So, we are at 80% level. So, if you are 100% we will be more zoomed in. So, for example, if you can see this is the 100% version. That time we will probably be like a 20% because we had zoomed out a lot. So, that's all of the top menu bar.  now let's move down a bit and this is a scale so here you can see what how much pixels are being used for every section so this in itself is not that useful but this can be used to bring any other thing which is more useful that is guides so for example you have three frames here you want to create another frame here you want to place it exactly there and you can use guides for that  So you can just click and drag from there and you will see guides. So you can just place your guides wherever you want. And based on those guides, you can just create your design. So as I place the guides, zoom in a bit. So when I place my guides correctly, I will have no doubts that whatever I design will be according to what the other things are like aligned to them.  So I have a rough guide layout there. I can simply go in and create a frame now. The best part is you can just align it also. As when you create the frame, we'll see that it will snap onto it. And that's it. When we just created the thing exactly at the same place we want to.  So this is the use of these rulers and the guides. On the left side, you will see the layers panel. So there is not much to talk about it here. Everything you see here is a layer and you can drag anything on top of anyone and like that. For example, let me draw two shapes. Let me remove these guides, which are nothing.  So let me draw two shapes. For example, there is a rectangle. There's another angle, right? First one is like the trade. I can, one will be blue.  Let's decrease the opacity of them. So here you will see, first let me show you the layer part. So red is on bottom and blue is on top. So you can just drag one over it and it will be on the top again. Can also use the square brackets on the keyboard to move back and forth.  So that is another way you can work with these layers. The main thing is you can use it to work through the groups and the frames. So this is a frame as I told you on the first you will see on the left side it will show it as like a frame collection.  so you can see there is a frame inside of it there is a circle so I can just duplicate it as many times as I want I can move around to stay inside of this frame only so this is this frame and what is the group you might ask so for example I want these two to be inside one group  so now it's created but the thing with group is it is not restrictive so you can still move it outside of here and there and they will still be in the same group here you can see they are still in the same group group has enlarged but the shapes are still in the group rather in the frames what we'll see is for example let's say we have this frame and a circle is inside of it so we have two circles in the frame  similar and we just drag it outside of here so somewhere here let's say for example i drag it somewhere here here you will see the other circle has crossed outside of the frame the frames are restrictive and the groups are non-restrictive we can just drag around anywhere you want so that's all for the left side of the panel i already told you about the pages  Now we'll see what is on the right side, which is not the most important, where you can see every single control of the file on the right side of the panel. So for example, I, I have a frame, just for example, this frame is like a rectangle. It's kind of like a calendar. For example, we have few.  rectangles inside of it. So we have frames only. Each frame shows about a day. Okay. So we have, for example, several days here.  and we are just adding it as it is whatever you want however you want now you can see it's pretty messy it's not aligned that one so you can use the align panel on the right side to align everything so let's select these three in the group and we see that we want to you can see that space between them is uneven so you can go here and tidy them up and the space will be even  Another thing we can do is, for example, these three are not aligned in a vertical manner. So we can align them from here. And it's very simple. It's just very, very straightforward.  Similarly, we want to align something which is horizontally. We can use this. We want to align something, for example, this is smaller than this. We want to align these two to the most right, to the most left. We can do that using this.  And similarly, we can use these, these to align things on top or bottom. So in the most top is the most bottom. Very simple. Next we have the controls of the frame. So this is the X position. So you can use it, drag around where you want the file to be. This is the Y position.  then we have the width and the height so for example we can make the width 200 you can make the height also 200 and for example you want it to stay consistent throughout whatever size you want you can just click on this chain and now if you decrease the height or width it will decrease proportionately to whatever you have set in the first  then we have the corner and the like the rotation so you can rotate it like this and then we have the corner radius so you can round it up to even like a circle by using this  So what I like to do is I create frames and then I make them circle so that we can use it to contain things. For example, a profile picture of anyone. So that's pretty cool. And you can make practically anything a circle by using this corner radius, uh, corner radius property. So then we have one of the best things of Figma that is auto layout. So right now, as you can see, this looks very messy, right? Just see what happens when I click on auto layout.  everything is arranged in a certain manner it might look still look a bit random because it is set to wrap but let me show you how it will look so now i have set it to vertical it will align everything automatically in the vertical manner if i want to be horizontally aligned you can see  It's not extending because the width is fixed. Let me set it to hug. So yeah, there is another property. Whenever you adjust the width or height, it will be set to fixed, but you can select it to be a hug. What we'll do is, whatever is required for the child elements to be inside of it, that much width will be given to them. For example, I drag out this frame, it will become smaller. I drag out this circle, it will become smaller. So like this, the hug property will always hug the child elements.  The next best part about auto layout is you can give corner margins and corner margin also or padding like you do in HTML and CSS. So here you can see, I'm giving in some margin, sorry, some padding on top, bottom and left and right. So now this looks a bit more like the better spacing. Then we have how much space do we want between the child element. So we can increase or decrease it.  So this is the one thing that I really like about Figma. And now they have added another thing called wrap. So let's say you want the frame to be somewhere like this much wide only. So if there are more elements than this, it should wrap around in the bottom. What you can just do is you can just make it fixed and click on wrap. So whenever there are more elements, it will just wrap around in the bottom.  and for example if there are more items it will just go below this much is the boundary of it then after that we have like  the layout grid which is basically like a grid for example here you will see in the frames select the frame tool on that you will see a lot of presets for the frames so i want for example a desktop preset of a like for example tv so i have this tv layout here so one good rule of design is to leave 90 pixels on the both sides so what we can do is add a grid  Go to the grid, click on columns and on the both side you want to leave around 90 pixels of margin. So you can just add it like this and 90 pixels will be removed from both sides and then you can select how much count you want, how many bars or how many columns you want. I usually go with 12 columns.  For wider screens, if it's a smaller screen, go with six. Right. So which will help you in design process, basically how, where you want to place your elements. That looks the best. When you have everything ready, just add your margins or your guides and just turn off the.  layout grid. So like this you can work on this only this section you can remove there you can ignore that part because that part is left for example some TV will be a bit wider some will be a little bit less wide so you can avoid that discrepancy a lot by giving some extra breathing space on the both corners. So after that we have the layers panel so let me show you an example let's say I have this blue rectangle  I want these two to blend in. Right. So I will just select the first one.  and in the layers part I will just select for example lighten so what will happen is it will change the overlay of the image so in the lighten part it's like this in the darkness like this in the multiply basically all these two almost the same thing just that they are different intensity similarly here in the lighten also all of them do the same thing just different intensity  You can play around with it, you can do anything you want. So this is like using the blending options inside of Figma, like we do in Photoshop. After that, what we have is the fill property. So for example, when you create a frame,  Sometimes it's without anything. It's just a blank thing. You can't even see it. Just see the name on top of it. So when you click on it, you will see there are several properties called fill. So you can change the fill of it. You can want any colors. You can add multiple layers also. For example, you want like a gradient of like blue from the green, from the top, the bottom.  and you can increase the intensity or decrease it like this and you can do anything you can even add an image over here so this is the fill property and the stroke does the same thing but on the sides of the rectangle you can increase or decrease the stroke you can choose if it increases in the inside or in the center in the outside like this you can change the opacity also you can change the color also  And other thing you can do is, you can select where you want the stroke. For example, let's say you only want it on the top. So you can select the top here. And even the best part is you can even select how much stroke you want on each part. So for example, you want 30 pixels on top, 5 pixels on the bottom. For example, nothing on the left or right. You can make it like this.  So and after that we have the effects tab. So we have I think only four effects right now not a lot but you can do significant amount of designing or add effects by using just these. So first we have inner shadow effect. So you can use it on the both ways. You can use it to create an inner shadow or you can also use it to create like a inner glow. Let me show you how.  So effects first in a shadow. So you can see the shadows coming from the top. If the shadow is black right now, that's why it's giving like a dark vibe. Okay. If I want to make it lighter, they can make just white. So you can use it to add shadow and glue both.  and there are several controls you can use it to adjust the position of it x and y position you can choose how much it's blurred and you can choose how much spread it has so how dramatic the effect is you can control by the spread option. I usually keep it at zero  because that's like the most natural vibe you can change the color and opacity from here same thing you can do with the drop shadow also you can use it both way and create a like a shadow with it you can create like a glow with it like this and similarly you can use the layer blur feature so this is used to give the blur effect and the background blur does the same but to anything to its background let me show you how it works for example i have this circle  Okay. The circle, for example, is blue in color and it should be on the bottom of it to it, for it to work. Okay. Yeah. So here we have background blur. Okay. For background blur to work, it's better to have it like a rectangle.  So now you can see the effect. This is a fully opaque kind of like a very edge type of circle. When I bring it below it, it looks like it's a blurred. It's like a glass surface at this point. So that's what the background property does. You can use it to create glass morphism.  So that's kind of like an effect where you see there are different type of glass like effect. Let me show you what do I mean. So where the screen is like a glass surface and the background is blurred. And the things which are not behind it are not blurred. So it looks like a glass surface, which is diffusing the light. So I think that sums up the effects part. Let's see what export is.  So export is like whatever you created. For example, I created this. I want to export this as an image. So go to the export tab.  And this is like the scale you want to export it. So as you can see, this is like 400 by 400. So if I want to export it in the same size, I'll just keep it at 1X. I'll select PNG and just export the file. That's all. The exported file is like this. So if I want to have it like a double size.  So I can just select 2x from here, 3x or 4x. So one thing I recommend is whenever you're exporting things from Figma, just use 2x. That gives the best quality possible because sometimes you can be working on a very small scale. You might not realize it because sometimes we just zoom it into 150 and work and the size of the things are like 20, 40 pixels.  So if you just scale it to X, it will be a very good quality, but we are working at a hundred percent, a hundred percent, then that's fine. You can use two on X. So apart from that, there are a few more things you can do about with the export menu that is you can export files in different formats. For example, exported in a PNG format can export in JPG, SVG and PDF as well.  Also, you can do one more thing. You can select multiple files and export them all at once to basically export a zip file with you so that whatever you export will be in one single thing. You can also select what is the color profile and based on whatever you select, it will be exported and the suffix is there. For example, let's say this file is called square. This file is going to circle.  So you want to add like square, then frame circle, then frame at the end, you can add it on here also like here and whatever export it will be like square frame, circle frame.  So I think that's all about the Figma's interface. And yeah, one more thing about the prototype that is, so what prototype does is when you're in the prototype mode, you can connect any two layers to do anything you want. For example, let me create a very fast, a very fast storyboard. So we have, for example, as the rectangle, we have like a circle. Okay.  So we have another rectangle with a circle turns like the red. Okay. We have another one with a circle turns like blue. And at the end, we have another one where the circle disappears and like, uh, like this.  Okay. So what we'll do is we will connect each of them one by one. So that when we click on one of them, we can go through one by one. So you can do either that go to prototype and connect these two frames itself. So whenever you click on the frame, it will go to that frame, but rather you can also connect elements.  So when you current it like this, when we click on here, it will go to this page and here you can fine tune how the animation should work. So first of all, it's set to instant right now. You can select it to smart animate. So it will decide on its own.  So it probably is the same thing. So let me move it here and move it there like this. So I'm going to move it here. I'm going to move it here. I'm going to move it here. I'm going to move it here. I'm going to move it here. I'm going to move it here. I'm going to move it here. I'm going to move it here. I'm going to move it here. I'm going to move it here.  So you can click on smart animate. There are a few things you can do. I think ease out works the best for me. And for this example, I'm going to keep it very simple and same you can do for the rest of them also. And like this, we have a very small storyboard ready. I told you this play button will basically play your flows. So let's play it.  So here we have our normal circle. When you click on it, it will turn red, click on it will turn blue, click on it will disappear. So like this, you can design any flow that you want. And by using the prototype menu, you can also select what device you want it to on. So for example, let's say I'm selecting a frame of a iPhone, for example, like 15 pro max itself.  So here we have the frame. Okay. Let's add some colors to it to make it a bit interesting. And just for example, I'm going to add like an app name.  So for example, if I was like this app, so where it's called meditation app and there's a download button. So I'm not adding any interactions here. I'm just going to show you how the, uh, like this works. Sorry, prototype this device works. So as I told you, we said a triphone 15 pro max. So we have to select that frame and you can see that what kind of frame that you want, blue, natural blue, white, black, let's say blue.  and when we have it ready we can select it and create a flow starting point so you can have multiple flows in the same file and when you play it you can play it now in the same page also and it will look like this but if you want the full effect you have to go to the  So, this is how it will look like. So, the full frame is there and the phone is there. So, as you can see, the app is inside like a phone kind of structure and you can see all the things. So, this is all about the device selection. You can also select MacBooks and any kind of device that you want. From here, you can see, we have Apple Watch, we have iPad, we have iPhones, we have MacBooks, a lot of things. And...  That's all about the prototype tab. And there is something called design system. So that I'll discuss in detail when I'm going to create an app for you, show you my flow. But just for example, let's say your apps brandings like red, white, and black. So let's quickly draw three circles. I can also use rectangles. So it doesn't really matter the shape, just showing circle, for example.  and let's say these are your color palettes of your brand okay so instead of every time selecting the same color code you can just save this as a style and you can just select it very easily every time for example i want to rebrand this app with these three colors so if i go ahead and paste the color code every time it will take a lot of time what i can do other than that is go to local sorry local styles and create like a color  where I will sample the color from these, this one and call it white. Like this, let's create the two also, which will be black and red. We have this Teclas ready for it. So let me show you how fast it is to do it now.  When you select the frame, all colors which are being used in the frame will be shown. So just click on this four dots. You will see your styles and just easily switch it up with the styles that you have. I think I should have made the button white. Yeah. The text can be read.  For example, this is just example. So as you saw very fast, if I were to just copy the color code and paste it, it would have taken a lot of time. So along with those style, you can have local variables also. This is a newly released feature and you can create a variable. For example, let's say you want to create like a number variable. So for example, the user, how many steps the user had inside of your flow.  So for example, you can just name it steps and we can make it zero at the start. And whenever the user goes a new step, you can increase the variable. For example, whenever he goes from here to here, it should increase by one. Like this, you can update the steps also.  So, but in the hindsight, you'll have a local variable. You have the local styles so that you have all the things in one place with before you don't have to go into each one and see where's what all the local styles and everything are very handy to you. And not only colors, you can add anything as I showed you.  text, effects and grid as well. So hopefully you enjoyed this tutorial and if you found this valuable, please let me know in the comments along with if you have any doubts and ask me in the comments or message me in the WhatsApp group also. I'm an admin. Animesh from Arthur. You can search my name and let's move on to the next video without wasting any more time for the Figma basic series. 

Understanding Components

 Hello everyone, welcome back to the next video in the Figma basic series. Today we will have a look at what are components inside of Figma. Components is one of the things that most designers struggle with a lot because it's like a bit tricky to understand but once you get it, this is one of the lifesavers that I have figured out because  The components help you create design systems. Like I showed you in the last video, how we can create a few text styles, few color styles that we can use throughout the design and that will stay consistent throughout. So even if you want to, let's say, rebrand the whole app, you can just change the color from there and the whole app will be rebranded. Components do the same thing, but on a much bigger scale. Let me show you what I mean.  So we are back in our Figma project and let me show you how a component will look like. So for example, we want to create like a button component. So what we'll do is we'll firstly add some text here. So let's say we add some text, for example, click here.  Okay. So we will make it a button by using auto layout. So in the last video, if you watch carefully, we have used auto layout multiple times to bind something inside a box. So what's the best, uh, most biggest benefit of auto layout is.  no matter what is the size of the text it can change but the box will always envelope it inside of it so if the text becomes smaller the box will become smaller and if the text becomes larger the box will become larger so it's a very good thing to use especially for components  So let's say we just right click and add auto layout. You can also use shift A to create auto layout. And once we have it, it will look like a transparent frame. We have to add a fill here. So say we added a white colored fill. Okay. So let me increase the font size a bit around, let's say 24 for this example.  and I have rounded the corners so this is a pretty standard button as you can see so now let's say we want to create several states of this button for example whenever you visit a website you will see when you click on a certain button one state is in the normal state one is the state when it's pressed or when you're hovering over it and other state is when it's pressed already and it comes back to normal after that  So let me show you how that actually works.  So first of all, we create it as an component. So for that, we have to just select it and click on this four diamond icon. You can also use the shortcut of option command K in windows. It will be, I think, alt control K. And once you click on it, it will become like a purple. There will be a purple border on top of it. So that means it is a component. So let's rename our component to something like button.  And what this does is, let's say whatever instances we create from this button will basically be dependent on the parent. Let me show you what I mean. So let's say I create a copy of it here on the left side. You will see this one has all the filled, uh, like filled diamond type shape, right? Which default says that it is a parent element and the child element will have like a.  hollow or empty diamond shape that means it is an instance so whenever I change something about the parent let's say I want to change the color of the parent it will also be reflected into the child element so like this whatever I change whatever I do in here will change the design throughout the file so let's say even if I have like 10 buttons here  So I just have to change one color here and it will reflect throughout the design.  So in order to make this work, let me just delete all the copies that I've made.  So now we have a fresh button and a fresh instance. So for example, we want to create several state of the, the main parent. We'll have to click on this plus button here, which will basically add a variant of the same, same component. So say when someone hovers over it, we want it to turn into a yellow color. Butter. So we go here and we change the color to somewhere close to a yellow shade.  Okay. Very simple. And let's say when they have stopped hovering, they will go back to normal. But let's say when they click, they want it to have like a yellow border also. So we click just the plus button here. And we'll change the color back to white. And this time we'll add a stroke. It should be yellow.  and like this the stroke will be yellow and we can increase the stroke width a bit and add a shadow and the shadow looks good so i think that's enough let's try how this will look for the child element for that we have to create a frame  Let's say we create a standard frame. Let's say we use the iPhone frame only that we built the last time. Let's place our button here into the center.  So here we have the page and what you have to do is you have to create a new flow starting point and you have to play this. So here is the button. Okay. I have to add a few interactions here for it to work.  So in order to add the interactions properly, I would suggest adding the property variants first. So what do I mean by that? For that, we have to switch to design page again. When we select one of the components, on the right, we'll see the variant properties. So here, you will see that the property one is like default. Second one is variant two, and this one is variant three.  So what we can do is we can select here, what we call it. So for example, let's say inside of property one, we want to call it as state. And here, this state is like our default state that is correct. This is our hover state. And this is our clicked or pressed state or active state also you can say.  So hover clicked and this is default. So once we have everything named properly, what we're going to do is we can just go to the prototype menu and drag an arrow from this one to the second one.  When you do that, you'll see a small panel open up. Here you have to see what interaction should trigger the change. We want it to be on hover, so we'll select while hovering. And then it should change to this state. And make sure to select smart animate, and you can select any kind of easing here. So what all type of easing is, just simply that you can see, here you can see the preview of how it will look like.  So if it's a bounce, it will bounce a little like this. It's like a gentle look like this. I am choosing ease out for this one because that is working fine. And here is the how much time should it take for it to like animate. So I've set it to 300 milliseconds. You can set it to any amount of time that you want to.  So once we have that connected, we have to connect this one also. And the reason why we're not connecting this one directly, connecting this one only because to click on the button, someone must be hovering on it first. Because if your cursor is not on top of the button, how will you click?  So we don't have to click connect this one to this one. We just have to connect this one with this one. Okay. And on tap while pressing. So when someone is pressing on it, then only it should be active. Same settings here as well. Now let's see how the interaction looks like on our main button.  So here you can see, when I'm hovering, it is starting to animate into the yellow color. And when I will press on it, it will turn out into the third variant. So like this, it's working. And you might ask one thing, that is, if we can't, if we just change the text here, all the buttons change, like text changes, how can we call it a design system? Because the things are static, right?  But it doesn't have to be that way. You can add another property, which will basically mean the text independent. So what you have to just do is just select everyone, all the three parts and go here. Here you can see in the sorry, in the design panel and see when you click on it, it will select the whole thing and just add another property here.  so properties are here so just add another property here as text so we can just name it as text right now it's like click here create property  So once all of them are selected, you have to just go here and you can see this modal icon which says create text property. So just click on it and just you can name it anything you want. I'm just adding a text and the values click here.  so once you do this in the main instance you will see there are now two properties available you can just change it to something like next page and it will change to next page and thanks to auto layout you can make it as big as you want and it will just fit inside of it  So that's how the components work. You can use the components to define any sort of variance inside the text. For example, let's say I want to create another kind of  variance that where I have small buttons so I'll just ctrl d use ctrl d to duplicate them and we'll have all this so we'll just use the k key so what we'll do is it will select the scale tool right so once you have k selected just make it smaller we'll make all three of them smaller  So these are like the small versions of those buttons, right? Because sometimes in the app, you will have buttons of different size, like somewhere here and there. Uh,  So after that, what I have to do is select each one of them and select the right state for them. So as you can see, they have created a new state for this one, but this is the default state. This is also, this is the hover and this is.  the click state but we will see this property and values of this variant are conflicting change the applied values on the variant to resolve this so what this is saying is these two are like the same thing and like they have the same name but the properties are different so you have to change some add a new property or change something about it to make it work because otherwise how will figma decide when you are saying that default which default to go to  so what we'll do is very simple we'll just select all three of them and we'll create a new property so I think we have to select one by one so here you will see inside of this we create a new property which will be like a variant to size  can be default, let's say other ones are default so this one has default size and default style this one has hover and default, this one has split and default this one should be default and here should be small  and this one should be default and small this one should be default and small so now if you see the error message has gone away now if we go to the instance we can use another variant as small  So it will be small. So like this, you can make any and every kind of variation possible. Let me show you the variations I have built when I was building the Wasco apps UI UX. That way you'll have an idea of what I mean by like a design system.  So this is like the amount of components I had created back then. So here is like a text input field. So it has so many states and each state has every type of connection built into it as well.  you see there are lot of connections this is this might look very complex but i will recommend you try out an exercise with you yourself create a button and try making different variations see how it works so you can try making this one also or this one as well  So, for example, what this is, like a simple text box, when someone clicks on it, this text becomes small and here we can see the typing icon. So, here someone can type something. So, let's say they don't have anything, it will look like this. Basically, this will go back and forth to give that typing bar animation.  And when they add some value, this is how it will look like. When they have pressed out of the box, it is not in the active state anymore. This bar should go away. So that's this property. And I'm not sure what this is, but this will also have some purpose.  And then this is like a disabled property kind of thing, I think. And this is the error value. So whenever we are having errors, we'll just show that already selected or some kind of text. For example, a password, it cannot be less than eight characters. So for those kind of things, we have this variant.  And apart from that, we have this slider also that I showed you in the first video. This is how I built it. So each state has its own layer. And based on what we have, each state will just change when we drag it from start to finish. Like this, I also built checkboxes in Figma also. First I built components of these checkboxes, active and non-active state, and then added text also.  So, like this we have button also, we have a slider, we have cool buttons and a lot of things. So, like this if you want you can create a complete design system like this huge of a design system for your app. So, it doesn't have to be this scary but at the end of the day you want to create systems so that they will enhance your workflow.  So I hope you enjoyed this video and in the next video, we're going to talk about variables. Variables are something which are very new to Figma and are very useful also. So it's like kind of like coding, but a bit less than that, but still it gives a lot of functionality inside of Figma with the current new update, because before that we had to do a lot of.  like somehow manage from here and there to get things to look like they are actually programmed. Right. It's very difficult to show some things, interact without doing some sort of programming in there because there is no way for Figma to calculate stuff in the past and all. But now we can create variables, keep an account of things, how things are progressing, this and that. So we'll discuss all that in the next video. Hope you found this video helpful and let's meet in the next video. Bye. 

Understanding Variables

 Hello everyone welcome back and in this video we are going to discuss variables. Variables is easily one of the most overpowered updates which is released in the last year and which gives us like crazy amount of control in our design system. So without wasting any time let me show you how it actually works.  So we are back in our design file. So I have imported one of the designs for a food delivery app that I had created in the past. We're going to experiment on this and I'm going to demonstrate how we can use these variables to easily switch between light and dark mode throughout the design in just one second. But first we have to build the whole system.  Let me show you how to actually use variables. When you have nothing selected all around, you will see in the right side, you can see the local variables. Let's create a variable for now. So for example, we want to create a color variable at first. So for this variable, I'll just name it as yellow. Okay. And for this color,  So for this color, I'm gonna select this color, which is yellow, okay? And like this, we're gonna link every single color on this page with this variable system. Let me do that really quickly, and I'll be back very soon.  So I think we have everything ready and now let's get a second layer of variables. So this is like a very primary kind of variable where we can call it as primitives. So we can rename the collection as primitives.  What this mean is, this is like a base structure, yellow, white and black are the three brand colors that we have. And now we're gonna create another layer on top of it, which will have more literal names, which will relate to this elements of the design. So for that, we'll just click on these three dots and create another collection. So this collection we can name as UI colors. And for here, we'll create another variable.  which will be a color variable. Now it's important. So what we'll do is, we'll link this with the price, for example, price. And the value, we will use it from the variables that we have. So for that, we have to go into the libraries and select the yellow color. Once you have that selected, now the price is linked to the yellow color. And like this, we are gonna link every single thing with the variables. So let's do that really quickly.  So now that we have all the things named properly like the price, heading, quantity selector, menu bar, reviews and cart buttons. Now, once all this is done, what we have to do is we have to link all those parts with these variables. So for that, let's close this tab for now. And let's say we want to link this quantity selector color, which is this right now. We have to go here and we have to go this four dots.  to go to UI colors and you will see quantity selector so as you can see there is a small gray box over the name of this that means it has been successfully linked so just to show you what this lets us do is we have to go to local variables and in the price sorry in the quantity selector we can select anything so let's say we want to change the color here to black and change it to black  you want to change it to white you can change it to white just with one click but you might think the color styles let's just do like the same thing right because if you see for example let's say this is connected with the layer styles if i just go there and change the red to like a pink it will also reflect here as well right but there is another layer to it let me show you how so first let's make this as default  So what is the difference is, if you change the layer style, it will change the design throughout. But what variables lets us do is, we can create a system where we have all the things named separately. For example, if you want to change the yellow color, but you only want it to affect the price, you can change the yellow color for the price here. If you only wanted to change the cart button throughout all the pages, you can change it like that. So that's the advantage we have with variables  that we don't with the styles. I think after sometime they are going to discontinue style anyways because like the variables have more functionality. So I will recommend you use variables more than styles in your design systems. So let's continue with it. So when we have linked this one, let me link all the rest of the elements as well.  So I think that's it. We have linked all of the elements of this with these variables. So we might ask, what's the use of linking all of them? So now what we can do is, for example, we want to experiment it, then we can do it really, really fast. So for example, we want to change the review colors to say black. So what we'll do is we'll just go here and find review colors.  So here you can see the reviews and here we can just make it black and all the reviews will be black all of a sudden. Like this we can change every single part of it. But the best part is you can create light mode and dark mode in the single frame as you want. So for that you have to just do one thing. Just drag it open a bit and create a new variable here.  now there will be two modes for the same object now things get interesting first mode you can name it as light mode next one as dark mode now what we can do is in the dark mode so we can select  icon in the layers panel you can select as dark mode now whatever customizations we do will be only done on the dark modes the color customization only that is so what we can do is we can change first start by changing everything which is white to black so now we're customizing the menu bar to black now it's black but the icons are disappeared so we can just go here and find the menu bar icons and make them  white like this they became white and for now let's say we want to change this background as well so we can go here and find the main background so I think the main background is not linked yet so let's link that one also so main background can be white in the dark mode it can be black so here will be white  so we'll just link it with the main background now the whole app is black so we have to change a few things so here you can see in the review text we have to change it so inside of paragraph text first do let's do from start to finish so whatever in here is like black here we have to change it to white now this will slowly do all of them  And whatever is white will be changed into black. So let's go one by one. Debut text should be white. Paragraph text should be white. Debut date should be in white. And this should be, it's already white. Okay, back button's text should be in black. Back button's background, that is.  I think that's it. Okay. This also has to be linked to some sort of text. So you can just link it to paragraph text and this will be white as well. Whatever is missing, we can just change it. So it's like the name. So it's right now black. Okay. This is linked to black actually. That's the main part. We have to link it to somewhere, something like a paragraph text and it will be fixed.  So like this, we have everything in place and just this one thing left and we can. So now that we, I think we have everything properly placed. As you can see, we switched it to dark mode very fast. Now that everything is set up, it's just like a one click solution. So here you can just, let me just increase the image size a bit.  So now that everything is set up, it's just like a one-click thing to change from light to dark mode. From here, whenever you have nothing selected, you can select this and go to light mode. Okay, sorry. This is set to dark mode, so we have to make it auto first. Now, if you just go to dark mode here, it will be dark. And if you want to go to light mode, it will be light. Just in one click. To make it look even cooler, I have another solution for you. So just do one thing.  create two frames of big enough to contain this frame okay here you will see this kind of frame let's say you want to showcase your app only and we can create a frame like this where we showcase our app like this okay and our app has like a stroke which can be somewhere like we can change it to stroke color let's add another variable for that  So say we have this kind of  size. Ok. I can just delete this duplicated one. Now in the background of it we will just select this. Go to here and first go to here and select from here just select the main background. So nothing is changed. But you will see the difference in just a minute. For here also select main bg. Only change is you have to select dark mode here.  now this will be black and this will be white and this is by default this is this should be white but let's select light mode here also so what will happen is when you drag it here it will be in dark mode and when you drag it here it will be light mode let me zoom in a bit so that you can look at the effect more better so you go here it will be in dark mode if you go over here to light mode just like that  for enhance effect you can do one more thing that is to select this and for the stroke of it link the stroke as well with like the stroke variable that we created so if you go into the black one now it will have a white stroke if you go to the white one it will have the black stroke  So like this you can showcase your app very easily in two different methods. And it doesn't only work with colors, it can work with spacing, it can work with text, it can work with any single thing. Every single part of the design system you can customize by using variables. It's a bit time consuming to set up.  but once you have set it up properly, it will be like a lifesaver. So just say, you have this one frame, you have all the details into it, the clients ask you, okay, but what about the dark mode? Or what about the light mode? You can just drag it here, and it's like a dark mode, white mode. If you don't want to do all that, you can just simply ask the client to switch from dark to light mode.  you can  to dark mode from here and every single thing about that will change. Previously what we had to do is, we had to create separate pages or separate sections of design where it will show light or dark, but it would be very difficult to compare side by side, right? So we had to put sometimes side by side, that made the whole design process a little bit cluttered.  but if you go use variables it will be very very easy for you to manage everything and I just want to give you one last example before I finish this video so that you will know that it can be also used as layer properties so just for example we want to create two types of buttons okay we have first button okay for button let's create a text first we have this text  and we add auto layout to make it like a button so on the stroke we add some spacing we add some fill and let's say this is a standard button okay so let's say you want the there are two versions one will be round with round edges one will be with straight edges you can do that very easily so let's say this is the straight edge version so you can create a variable here  go to local variables and you can create a new set you can create as many sets as you want so I'll just create another collection just say roundness here  And inside of roundness, I'll create a variable which will be a number. Make sure to remember this, whatever type of variable you want to create, the data type matters the most. So if you want to have color variable, if you want to have value variable, if you have text variable, if you want to have a yes, no type of variable, then you have to go with boolean. So we have a number value, so we go with number and we add as corner radius.  So, the first one will be named as sharp, which will have zero corner radius. Other one will be rounded. Let's say we have like we go over what we have 300.  So now what we can do is we can go ahead go inside the corner radius of it and you see this small like icon you can just click on it and select corner radius. Now what will happen is you can easily switch between any of these. So for example we want to go and we want to select as the  as the rounded version. It will become rounded in one single second. And you can do all those fancy stuff with this one also. They can go here, you can go and just round it.  one click so like this you can adjust spacing you can adjust every single part of the design using variables what was the difference between style and this variable multiple people asked that's the main difference that styles can be used as color text or some other things for example color text effects and a grid those are good enough but those aren't that useful as variables are variables are just magical at this point so i hope you like like this video if you  something new in this video and if you like like the concept of variables I would love to see your implementation of how you use variables in your design system so if you can just send me the link on whatsapp or Instagram of LinkedIn you can just search my name Animesh Mahato and you can send me those I'll have a look and I'll let you know what I think about them so till then have a really good day and let's move on to the next video of this Figma basics series bye 

Use of Plugins

 Hey everyone, welcome back. Today we are going over plugins in Figma. So as I told you before, the reason I like Figma so much is because of the third-party accessibility inside of Figma is really, really good. Because Figma has been out there for a long period of time, many of the third-party developers have created plugins for Figma so that it can increase the efficiency of your user workflow.  So without wasting any more time let me teach you how to use a plugin and then I'll explain you these are some of my top plugins and together with it I'll give you a sheet in the file link which I will constantly upgrade with whatever new plugins I discover and that way you will be up to date with all the latest plugins in the market. So without wasting any more time let's get started.  So to use a plugin inside of Figma, you have to go to this tab and where it will start open as components, you have to go to the second panel which says plugins. So inside of here, you will just search whatever plugin you want to use. So say for this example, we are using the Unsplash plugin. So we'll just  Search Unsplash, and once it is there, the plugin will open in its own small window inside of Figma, like this. Here, you can see a lot of images, right? So for example, I want to search for something, AI robot or something like that.  you can just directly search from here and I can use any of these make sure whatever is under splash plus you will need a subscription for it so for example I want to use this image so I just click over it and it will be imported inside my  file just with one click. Otherwise what you have to do is go to Unsplash or any other image service, search the keyword, download it, import it to Figma and all those can be done in just one single step because of plugins.  Some plugins are paid, some plugins are free. And based on the developer, it depends. But most of the time, 90% of the plugins have usable features in the free plan also. So you can try them out before buying them or making a decision. So now that you know how to use a plugin properly, let me show you some of my top plugins, which I use almost every day. So that will help you a lot in your workflow.  So this is the list. First is unsplash.com, as I showed you right now. Second one is Table Creator. I don't know why, but they should give some options out of Figma to create a table, but they don't. So it is a hectic task. You have to create a table every time from scratch. So for that, you can use the Table Creator plugin, which will create a table inside of your workflow. And you can decide how many rows you want. You can decide how many columns.  like that isometric is basically like a good mockup or showcasing tool. So what this will do is, it will make your design flat design into an isometric type of design. So that way it will look cool when you present it to the stakeholders, the investors and any other people.  and then auto flow basically helps you speed up your prototyping or flow design journey. Flat icon basically gives you a lot of icons which you can use inside of Figma. Icon set background remover removes the background of any and every image for free. And artboard studio mockup gives you a lot of mockups from laptops, even products like bottles and other things. You can place your design over them and see how it will look like in the real world.  Font scale gives you a good font scale. So for example, what should be the size of the heading, what should be the subheading like that, how much you should give font size to each of them, font scale will help you with that. Content reel is basically like a copywriter for you, which will basically efficiently just pull text strings here and there and just add it into your design.  what we do is we use lorem ipsum so you can use it instead of that and vector 3d element basically allows you to import your 3d elements inside of figma so first you have to create that 3d element and then you can import it as like a png or something inside of figma using vector 3d  So, I hope this video was helpful. This is a very short video and I just wanted to show you how to use plugins and below will be the link where you can find all these along with some of the extra depends on what time you are watching the video. So, I'll just keep adding new and new plugins every day so that you stay updated. So, hope you enjoyed this video and let's meet in the next video. Till then, take care and bye. 

Figma Shortcuts

 hey everyone welcome back so in this video i'm going to show you how you can use figma shortcuts to enhance your workflow speed by almost 2 to 5x so as we all know shortcuts as in any program help us reduce the number of keystrokes or the number of clicks we need to make  Right, so here are some of my most common shortcuts that I use almost every day. So let's start off from the left where we have the tool shortcut. So the V is used to switch to the move tool. And then the K is used to switch for the scale tool, F for the frame tool. The space bar, while you're using any tool, if you keep holding it, you will get the hand tool like this.  And after that we have the comment tool for C. Pretty straightforward, very easy. And then we have the...  frame based shortcuts like framing and grouping so if you want to group something just control or command G it if you want to frame something then option command G or option control G then if you want to auto layout something you can just use shift plus A and there are some other shortcuts that I have included here and which are renaming command plus R or control plus R  option command k which basically lets you create a new component and command plus t lets you duplicate it anything so if you are confused command basically is a mac operation if you are on windows you can use control option can be replaced with alt  on Windows. So these are a handful of shortcuts that I use pretty much 80% of the time. And if I sit down to explain every single shortcut, that video I don't think will be that useful and it will be very lengthy. So I'll give you a very easy way to access all the shortcuts inside your Figma itself.  So you have to do just one thing. Go to this main menu and just search shortcuts. You will get this keyboard shortcuts. You can also reach here by clicking on like this shortcut and then let's... When you click on it, in the bottom you will see that  we have this big panel, right? So this big panel will let you see all the shortcuts, every single shortcut that is possible. So the tool shortcut is here, the view is here, the zoom, text, shape, selection, cursor, edit, transform, arrange, and conference.  The best part is, you don't have to follow any list, you don't have to follow anything. Inside of Figma, you'll get the latest and most recent all the new shortcuts. So, this was a quick video. I wanted to explain you about Figma shortcuts. So, hopefully you enjoyed this. Let's move on to the next one. 

Figma Best Practises

 Hey everyone, welcome back. So in this video, we are going to talk about the best practices you should follow inside of Figma. So whenever you're designing inside of Figma, there are a few things that people who just started like make mistakes on. And that's why I wanted to give you these best practices at first so that you can get the best output in the least amount of time possible. Because as you know, the most of the time spent is in the  fine-tuning part, right? The creation itself can be a little slow at start, but when it works, you can just create the whole app very fast. But it comes to when you want to troubleshoot or go back to things. So when you go back, you will think, oh, God, I have messed up the whole file. And that literally happened with me also. So when I was handing off the file to the developers or  developing the user interface myself. So for the Bosco, I also developed the user interface for the web part of the desktop version using React. So that time I realized what mistakes I had made. And for that reason, this video is one of the most important videos of this course. So please, please listen carefully and follow.  So let's start with the first one. So always use a design system. So last few videos was about variables and styles where I talked about why the variables are important, why the styles are important. And I hope you already know the importance of because whenever you want to change something, you can directly go to your design system and change one thing and the whole app will be changed. You don't have to individually take apart everything, right? Unless you want to go back then  So, it's better to integrate whatever changes you want to be inside the design system. So, it can take some time to build up, it can take 10-20 minutes extra when you start, but it's worth it, according to me at least. So, second one is always follow a grid layout.  So usually as a designer, we can just drag and drop everything here and there. But for developers, it's a bit different. Even if you know a bit of HTML, CSS, you would know that every single pixel matters and you can't just throw around things.  Things need to be making sense for the HTML to work. Sometimes it needs to be stacked, sometimes it needs to be aligned in a certain way. So for that reason, I always recommend using the layout grid part so that you can know every single pixel of a design.  and use auto layout from the start. This is one of the mistakes I made when I created the design. I just used it like Photoshop. I just moved around everything from here and there and just made the design work. But when I was about to start development on it, I was really confused on how things are working. One of the best parts about Figma's auto layout is it lets you imitate how HTML and CSS approaches design or web design in general.  So, you can follow the same aspect in the mobile app design also. Same case there also. So, that's why use auto layout always. So, the next one is name the frames.  or objects properly so as you might know we tend to just create and create and create and do not organize things right so for example i created an app which is called iphone 13 pro frame something like this comes up whenever you use  frame of  about the main frames but inside every single frame also had to be renamed. Every single frame. I have literally renamed 800-900 frames myself for that one. I think it will be more than that. So that is very hectic and not fun at all. So whenever you start designing, make sure to rename files to something that you can understand later on.  so one of the good naming conventions you can follow is like this so for example this is the home screen so just example this is a home screen so you can rename it as home screen okay let's say you want to create another version of the home screen right so you can name it home screen v2 something like this  But make sure to rename every single type of design so that whenever a developer looks at it, he is not with you throughout the design process. So he needs some context over it. So the names of your file will follow as context for that guy. So that's why always rename files properly.  then create component for repetitive elements. So I couldn't tell you how many times I had to update that yellow button for Wasco, not rename, but create every single time for other thing or I just duplicated it. And when I supposed to ask to change something, let's say the font, let's say the font color, then I was like, okay.  I had to do that for literally 15 to 20 places. And then I had to show them, then say, okay, this is not good. Then I had to go back to the previous version. So all that effort was at least like non-productive time for me. So it's better to create components and use them so that whenever you update the parent component, all the children get updated as well.  So in the last part, I hope I already explained to you that frames are superior to groups, superior to rectangles. So use them as much as you can because you can follow auto layout with them.  So I hope this video was insightful for you. Some of my mistakes and like things that I wasted time on could save you a lot of time. So I think that was worth it for me going through the learning experience so that you don't have to go through all that again. So yeah, hopefully you found this video helpful. Let's move on. 

Design Basics Intro

 Hey everyone, welcome back. So today we are discussing design basics. In the last video we discussed about best practices inside of Figma and after that there is my personal workflow which I'm going to show you after this module. So today we are starting this new module called design basics and this is a quick intro video why this module is important and who should you watch this module. So if you are anyone who is new to designing in general even if  in graphic design or UI design any kind of designer you are new to designing design basics is like the core of it so as in any kind of skill the basics is what builds you from scratch right so i would recommend everyone who is a beginner even if you're an expert  I am going to discuss use of space, balance, hierarchy, lines and shapes, colors, typography, texture and branding in design.  So all of these basically in this complete module, we're going to discuss about design basics and then we're going to start designing an actual app. So hopefully you're excited. Let's move over to the next video where we're discussing use of space. Take care and goodbye. 

Use of Balance

So what do we mean when we talk about balance in our design? So as humans we are conditioned and throughout evolution we are  people are things which are more symmetrical in nature as more beautiful so for example if you see someone's face and their face is perfectly symmetrical then you will say okay this person is very good-looking I know you might have never thought of it like this way in your head okay this is why I'm finding this attractive even if you look at a butterfly and all this kind of stuff flowers and all that which you  feel are very beautiful from looking at them are because of symmetry. Not 100% because of symmetry, but over 50% of it is because of symmetry. We don't make a constant decision to make sure and remember that, OK, this is symmetrical. That's why I like it. It's not about that. And that's why, when you're designing something, you should try to make it more symmetric and easy to grasp for other people.  For example, if you look at the left side of the design, this is predictable, right? On the left side and right side, two circles, same size, same color. In the right side of the bad use of spacing, you can see two circles are being put together in a very weird way on the left side of the screen and the right side feels a lot vacant. So that's why it's a bit  unbalanced kind of a design so when you look at both of them and I ask you choose one of them just on the basis of how they look so you will choose on the left one because first of all that looks good instantly but second of all it's because that looks safe that looks predictable that looks something you are used to looking at  So that's why whenever you try to make design, try to make them symmetrical, try to make them balanced. I'm not saying every design that you make should be like symmetrical both ways. It doesn't have to be that way, but just make sure it doesn't look unbalanced. That's it. So hopefully you learned about balance from this video. Let's move on to the next design basic concept. 

Importance of Hierarchy

 In this video, we are going to discuss hierarchy in design. So if you look at this small design, here you can see on the right side of it, there is a heading, which is the title, basically a playlist for every moment, which is the biggest font out there. And the lead is like a small paragraph after that. And there we have a division.  After that, we have two sections with similar kind of styling. The heading of the section in a bolder variant of the font and the text in the normal one. So, what hierarchy is used for? When you look at this kind of design, you will instantly read the headline. You won't read the sub-headline, you won't read anything else.  Right. It's very simple. Hierarchy helps the user to guide how to approach the design. So even if you look at some things in the real life, newspapers and all that, the heading is very bold and then the text is very small.  It's not because they randomly decided to do that. It's because they wanted the user to first read the heading and then go to the text. It's as simple as that. And sometimes people do this mistake is, if you see these two sections look the same, but these two does not look the same at all. Both of them have completely different style if.  even the spacing between both the elements is very different so to make people feel like these two are separate section we have added another separator that is this small line so this doesn't serve a purpose on its own but when you put it like this way it makes a clear distinction that okay this part is heading this above part and this part whole is another section where we are going to discuss about subtopics and all that stuff  So, that's the reason we use hierarchy in design. And if you want to simply put it in one way, make the headings big, the paragraphs small, and make the heading paragraph plus the heading text different than the sub-paragraph. You can put it in any kind of order. Even if you want  want to make two shapes. One shape should be more differentiating, one should be less. What will you do? You make one bigger, make one smaller. It's very simple, as simple as that. So through hierarchy, you can guide the user on how should you approach the design. So you can use it to view the design in the viewer's perspective. So hope that helps. Let's move on to the next design basics concept. 

How Lines and Shapes effect your design

 So welcome back and in this video, let's have a discussion on lines and shapes. So for everyone, I would really recommend to pull full focus on this video because this is going to be like a make or break type of thing for your designing. So lines and shapes help us communicate our emotions to the user.  So for example, on the left side of the design, you will see a very fluid kind of design with small blobs here and there, colorful blobs, which doesn't have any predefined shapes or sharp lines. They are very fluid, they are very rounded and all that. So what emotion do you get if I cover all the design and just look at that? We'll say, okay, this is a bit friendly.  Okay, this is a bit flowy and it's kind of an independent, right? It's like everything is random. Something makes sense, something doesn't. So it's very much experimental and new kind of design. Whereas if you look at the center one, it has very straight lines and it seems like every single line serves a purpose, right?  So that's the power of what kind of shapes or lines to use. On the right side of it, you will see, okay, this design looks a bit weird. Whenever you look at it, it looks a bit weird. Even if the eye makes it more weird, but even without the eye, see, okay, fine. This is a bit like unorthodox, right? It's because the lines used here are not straight. If you look at it carefully, you will see that the line used are very wiggly and kind of like  not prominent. There are multiple lines to make something feel like okay there is a line. So that's what the use of lines and shapes is. If you use bold hard lines that will give a completely different feel to the user and if you give a bit rounded kind of feel then the user will feel okay this is friendly and all that. A very good example I would say is there was a study where people were  given two candies, two chocolate bars. One chocolate bar was very rounded and the pallets in the chocolate bar were very rounded. Other one was very straight, very sharp kind of like chocolate bar, like how the edges of Cadbury chocolate bar is there.  So everything was very sharp, like that full design. And the kicker was, there is more sugar content in the sharp one. So when the people in the study were fed both the bars, they said, okay, which one feels like, yeah, it is more sweeter. All of them said, like 90% of them said the rounded one. Even though there is less sugar into it, just by the looks of it, people thought, okay, this is more friendly, that's why it feels good to eat.  Hopefully that example helps you understand the importance of the lines and shapes that you use into your design. Now let's move on to the next video where we are going to discuss the next topic. 

Color Theory Explained

 Welcome back everyone. So in this video, we are going to discuss about color theory. And this is one of the most important aspects of branding and designing because this can literally change the emotion the user, the viewer of the design is feeling inside of their head. For example, if you look at the Burger King logo, or even if you look at the KFC logo,  for some reason you feel hungry all of a sudden. So as much as the aspect that they have done advertising played into it, the color theory itself plays a very big role. So let me show you how you can use color theory to transform your designs and make it more emotional for the end user. Because at the end of the day, emotions are what sells because we are all emotional beings. So let's move on.  So first of all, we need to know there are two types of colors that are available. First is RGB, Red, Green and Blue. These RGB colors are used for digital displays and all the designing you are going to do for something to be posted online, you are going to do in RGB. But whatever you are going to do for a paper print, you are going to do in CMYK.  why you might ask is because RGB is like a additive type of designing. So let me give you a very simple example. If you look at your screen, the screen is emitting light outside of it. That's why you're able to see. But when you're looking at a book, a book is not emitting light outside. It's absorbing light and reflecting it onto your eyes so you're able to see it.  Right, so that's why when you have RGB, we can emit lights outside. So R, G and B, Red, Green and Blue colors can be used there. But to get the same effect from a book, you can't use Red, Green and Blue. You have to use Cyan, Magenta, Yellow and Black.  If you mix all of them, you get black and here also if you mix all of them, you get white. So this is what the main difference is. So as the light is getting emitted, if you mix all the main colors, you get white. But as the lights are getting absorbed, if you add all the types of colors, it will end up being black.  So, it's not a big deal, it won't change how you design things, but whenever you're designing something for print, make sure to change the setting to CMYK. That's what we call a color profile. So, let's move on to the next, which is discuss about color wheel.  So if you see this is the color wheel, I think almost everyone of us learned in the school in our art classes. This is like red, orange, yellow, yellow greens, greens, blues, blue greens, blues, blue violets, violets, mauves and mauve pinks and pinks. So this is the overall color wheel. What we're going to do is we're going to use this color wheel to select colors for our design.  So in color wheel, there are three type of selection that we can make. First is primary selection, where we can only select the primary colors, red, blue, and yellow. You can select any of these three and the design gonna look good. And there we have the secondary colors. So when we mix blue, green, sorry, red, blue, and yellow, we get green, orange, red, sorry, green, orange, and purple.  These are called secondary colors. But when we mix the secondary colors also in between all of them, we get the complete color wheel where we have the tertiary colors as well.  And there are two main differentiators in the color wheel. One side of the color wheel is called the warm colors. So red, yellow and any kind of color which is close to them are called warm colors because they give us a sense of warmth because the Sun is of this color.  very simple. As like everything that you learn in design is some kind of use of evolutionary psychology. So as humans we have done like we have throughout the evolution we know okay warmth means fire or sun so these gotta be red. So and cool in the cold what do we have? We have  water, ice and all these kind of things feel colder. So that's why we have blue, purple and all the other colors in a colder spectrum. Except the colors which are from sun or fire. And then we have the color codes. So usually color codes are made from hue, shade, tint and tone. Hue is basically what color you want to use. Red, blue, green, yellow. What color you want to use.  Shade is what kind of black do you want to add on to the color. More black, less black, like this, the intensity of black basically. Tint is how much white you want to add on the color. And the last we have tone.  So tone is like how grey you want the color to be, if that makes sense. So everything is grey actually in design. It depends on how much grey it is, the brightness and the lightness is decided. So this is a bit technical and I don't have to go that deep into it because it's not that important. It's basically just the color codes in the design.  Then we have the color schemes. This is very important for selecting colors. So there are three universally accepted color schemes that everyone thinks gives the best color combination. So first one is complementary. You choose two colors which are opposite on the color spectrum, like red and blue, like  like orange and green like this anything which is opposite you can if you use it properly it's going to look very good then we have analogous colors so it's usually used when you're going for a more monotone type kind of look where we have a lighter and a darker  kind of a variant of it and we use some other colors on top of it to add some more details. For example, if you are making a blue monotone kind of a design, but you want more character into the design, you can use purple, you can use this light blue color also. Then we have a triadic kind of design.  static kind of color scheme. So where we have, you can draw triangle anywhere inside the color wheel. The three colors you get, you can use them in your design. So red, yellow and blue. So you can use the primary, tertiary colors, anything which comes inside of this. And there are more of them. For example, quadrilateral is also there and all that. But usually these three are the parent of every other color scheme.  For example, let me show you what the use of it. So this this logo is made by using complementary colors red and green.  This is used, if you see at the bar at the top, it is made using analogous color view. So on the most left, you will see that we have orange and slowly it goes to yellow and then it turns into red, especially same here also. We have blue, then we have gray, but this one is a better example of what analogous color will look like.  then we have the triadic colour, red, blue and yellow. So like this you can pick what type of colour scheme are you going for. Now let me show you what emotions that colours provide, and this is the most important part of it, where I explained to you about the KFC, that if you look at the red colour, what does it make you feel?  It makes you feel excited, it makes you feel kind of a strength, love and energy. It's a very high energy color basically. Because also another reason being red has the highest wavelength and that's the reason it's also used in the stop signs. So why does the KFC logo is red? It's because it induces the emotions of excitement and hunger.  Whenever you look at most fast food company logos, you will see a prominent use of red. Why aren't they blue? Why aren't they any other color? Why are they red? Pizza Hut is red. Domino's, I think, Domino's is blue plus something else. And the KFC is red. We have Burger King, which is red. McDonald's also uses red and yellow inside the design.  So like this, if you see at software companies, for example, Salesforce and any other software companies like Windows, they're all blue, because blue gives a sense of trust to the user. And similarly, you can use different colors. For example, if you look at Apple's marketing, they use black and white colors a lot. And if you look at it here, white gives the feel of clean simplicity, innocence and honesty.  whether black gives a sense of formality, dramatic sophistication and security. So these are like the premium colors. If you see most of the designer brands and all that, you will see they use a lot of black and white into the design. And even if they are using colors, they will make it very, very, very, very light. So it will almost feel like a black or white.  So like that, we have different colors. Whenever you look at green, you will automatically feel, okay, this is natural, this is very healthy, right? So that is about green. For orange, we have success, bravery, confidence, and sociability. Orange is like a vitalizing type of color. So whenever you look at the orange, blue candy, you feel energized. So like that, we have different colors. And yellow is for creativity, happiness, warmth, and cheer.  So yellow gives a sense of home for many people and it feels really good. That's why many of the homes are also painted yellow and  Most of the creative sites like museums and all that use yellow a lot. Pink gives a sense of compassion, sincerity, sophistication or sweetness. So if you look at the color pink, you feel like, okay, this is like a feminine color. This is very kind of like a funky kind of color also. And it's very compassionate. All the things that you look, when you feel, when you look at pink, that's what you need to decide when you look at what color I want to use.  Purple is used for Royalty, Luxury, Spirituality and Ambition. And I have a really good story of why Purple is referred to as Royalty and Luxury still now.  It's because in Europe, I think, the color purple was extracted by very, very difficult means. So every color was easily accessible, except the color purple. It was very expensive also. So only the royals could afford to wear it. But when synthetic dyes came in, then everyone, normal people like us, can also wear purple. But it still feels like a luxury color, in the West at least. Browns gives us a dependable, rugged, trustworthy symbol.  So brown is the color of soil. It gives us the sense, okay, this is rugged, this is a reliable kind of thing. So like this, you can search for any color that you think will be good for your brand. But mostly, if you're going into software, you can choose blue, that is the safest color, but some shade of blue you can use. And if you're going to food or any exciting industry, you can go with red.  Here are some websites that you can use to make your color selections. For example, remember I told you about the three types of color wheels usage. So complementary, analog and triadic. You can experiment with these on this website from Adobe, where Adobe gives us a color wheel where we can experiment based on what we want. For example, I'm looking for analogous blue kind of shade. So I'll just drag in the main color to blue.  And here you can see I have all the color palettes available and I can use any of them for my design. For example, I am not looking for analogues, I am looking for like a triadic kind of design. So here you can see, you will get a triadic design. So this, this, this are the three main designs. And if you want more colors, just keep on adding here, you will get here. For example, I am looking for a complementary  color so select complementary here we will see both these colors are complementary to each other like this you can use any kind of like color say color sorry color harmony and you can select any color you want so for example you want to select blue color but you want something close to the complementary of it so i'm just going to go to complementary select blue here here i'm getting yellow  Just use yellow. Very simple. So like this, you can use this color wheel, but there is another website that makes it even more easier for you to select colors. That is this website called coolers.co. I think I found about this website 3-4 years ago and I am using it still now. This is just an amazing website. So, what this website does is, it gives you a random color generator. And you can choose to lock in the colors that you like.  So for example, I want to, let's say, these are all the colors that I have. I don't like any of them. I'll just click space and it will switch. So you can click space as many times as you like till it gives you a good color. So I always lock in a good black and white, and then I go with other colors. So just for example, I'm designing, for example, a learning app.  Okay, I'm choosing color for that. What do you want to choose for a learning app? Comment below. What do you think a learning app should have? What kind of feel? According to me, it should have a lively feel, which orange gives a very good way. And other thing can be a learning aspect, the genius thing, which purple gives a very well. So let's see if we can get a nice color like that.  This purple looks good. So I think these three colors are good enough. We can delete the rest. And once you are done with your selection, you can just export it from here. So you can go here and export. You can export in any kind of way you want. For example, I want to export it as image. So I'm just learning app.  And it's done, it's exported. So if you want to see how it looks, let me pull it out. This is how you will get the color code. So this website is one of the best for color selection and this way you can select color for your own brand. So hopefully you found this video helpful. Let's move on to the next concept. 

Typography Explained

 Welcome back everyone. So in this video, we're gonna discuss typography. So typography basically means what kind of text style are you looking for in the design? So there are four major kind of typographic differentiations that we can use to create designs. First is a display font. Display means nothing but a fancy way to say, okay, this is a stylish font. So display fonts you will find to be the most creative  and the most difficult to fit in in normal use cases. So if you are looking to write like a paragraph for a newspaper, you won't use display fonts because display fonts are very standing out out of the box kind of fonts. So they are primarily used for headings or some parts where you want to  Next we have the sans serif font. What sans serif means is they don't have this small kind of things in the side like you can see in the serif. Let me discuss serif first then it will make more sense. So serif are the fonts which has a small kind of growth at the right at the edges.  to make it feel more premium basically. So here you can see the small things are missing into the sans serif font. So sans serif means without serif. Very simple. Then we have the script font. Script fonts are like handwritten kind of fonts which are also stylish as display fonts but they are more flowy in nature.  So all that is like a very objective differentiation. Let me give you why do we have all this kind of fonts. What's the use of them? So first of all, let's start with Serif. Whenever you're looking for a premium feel from a brand, we use Serif fonts because Serif fonts are like very much sophisticated and used for premium brands. That's what the feel that Serif gives us.  Whereas Sans Serif can be used to create design more modern, to make them feel like more, what you say, playful kind of a design, where Sans Serif is like a very premium kind of thing. Sans Serif can be also premium, but the use case of Sans Serif is way bigger than Serif.  Even if you look at these fonts that I'm using in the presentation are Sans Serif fonts. Like 90% of the fonts that you'll find in today's day and age are Sans Serif fonts.  Then we have the display font. As I already told you, they take a lot of attention from people. So whenever you want attention, use display fonts. And scripts fonts are only used in places where you want them to feel like human touch is added. So someone's signature might be displayed in a script font. Some story or some poem can be written in a script font to give that  is a human touch to it, there is a fluency to it. That's what script fonts are. So and if you just search on Adobe fonts or any other font website like 1001 fonts, you'll find all those kind of fonts differentiation there. So you can filter what you want. So if you're looking for a more like a premium feel, just search Serif font. If you want something  to be  Open Sans, we have Monstrat, we have Avenir LT Pro, then we have, like there are many fonts which are very good in Sans Serif niche, and in the Serif we have Times New Roman, we have Garamond, there are other fonts as well. So there are hundreds and hundreds of fonts of each category available, but 90% of the time you will find very bad selection in Sans Serif and Serif font.  Display will be the least, script will be slightly bigger than display. But you can find decent fonts in any of these categories and if you use them properly in your design, they will give it a completely different feel. So now let's move on to the next design concept. 

Use of Textures

 So, in this video, let's discuss the use of texture into the design. So, textures are, if I say, are a very modern concept in the design world. Previously, we didn't use that much texture because first of all, it was very difficult to replicate texture in print media with the old printers, right.  and still now also you will see the primary use of textures into the design in either magazine covers like a one page kind of place or you will find it on digital posters and all that because they help people connect design with the real world  So, with example, let me show you. First, this one, you will see a very vibrant kind of a felt with a flowery texture on top of it. So, and there is an E written over it. So, it gives a very lively and a very flowy kind of a feel that, okay, this is some kind of a clothing brand. You can literally say, okay, I am a clothing brand by using a certain texture in your brand.  In the second one, we can see someone's head is poking out of a paper. So it is not actually something which is functionally accurate, but it generates curiosity, and I think that's what the designer was going for.  So in the third one you will see that there is a paint brush kind of a texture used onto the A to make it feel like a modern kind of modern art kind of a thing and where paint is everywhere and there is just one single thing at the middle.  So textures are very new concept but you can use them here and there to make the design more interesting but I would say don't overuse them by using them every single place. And I think that's it for the texture part. Let me know which one of these three you like the most and which one of these three could intrigue your curiosity the most. For me it was the center one because someone's head poking out of a paper where is written designer or something.  It's pretty weird and pretty curiosity generating thing for me. So let's move on to the next concept and that will be the end of this design basics and then we're going to start creating design for actual app. 

Branding Explained

 Welcome back everyone. So this is going to be the last video of the design basics. We're going to talk about branding. So branding in general is not any certain like a tangible concept. Branding is like the composition of every single thing about your brand.  For example, if you look at this image, you will see, OK, the brand color is yellow. Their texture is there is some paper texture here. They have this and that. So everything flows together to make a branding. So everything I talked about in the past from color selection to use of typography, to use of shapes and lines and everything builds the branding.  So if you use all the concepts correctly, you will end up with a really, really kickass branding for your app or for your project. So there is nothing much to talk about here, but mostly just remember one thing, whenever you're going to create a branding,  make sure to know the end message of the brand. For example, if I were asked to create, rebrand Apple, and if I were to ask to rebrand, for example, Xiaomi, both of them are completely different. So, Apple sells premium phones over 1 lakh or close to 1 lakh, whereas Xiaomi or Redmi will have phones in the range of 10-20 thousand also.  So I cannot brand them the similar way. That's why it depends on the brand, what kind of field they're looking for to design, make the right choices and give them the best brand possible. So hopefully this video was insightful and let's conclude our design basic series here with the concept of branding. And from the next video, we'll start with actually designing an app from start to finish and from scratch.  So hopefully you enjoyed this video. Take care and have a really good day. 

Designing an App Intro

 Hello everyone, welcome back and today I'm really excited as we are finally starting to design an actual app with all the concepts that we have learned till now, the UX concepts, the design basics and the Figma basics, everything you have learned till now, we are going to implement that  into creating this app's design. And these are the steps we are going with to create this whole app. I just wanted to make a quick video explaining the steps in a brief way so that you know what we are going to pursue from now. So first, we will create a mood board. If you don't know what a mood board is,  Moodboard is like a collection or collage of images, design references, and ideas that you want to present to your client and show, okay, this kind of vibe I'm going with for this app. If the clients like it, we move forward with the Moodboard.  Then we have the brand colors. We are going to fix some good brand colors for our brand. And then we have brand fonts. And then we have branding design system setup. That I have already showed you in the variables, how we create a design system with all the kinds of colors and everything, specifically for specific parts for design.  Then we have wireframing and app flow. So wireframing and app flow used to be a very lengthy task before because we didn't have any AI tools. But in this tutorial, as we have an AI powered AIX course, I'm going to save you a lot of time by using UiZard. So UiZard is an AI tool which is not that good like in comparison  to Figma of the designing and all. But, it is really good to create a starting point. So, we're going to explore UiZard for that step and create our wireframes and app flow in one go. Because it's very difficult to start from zero, but it's very easy to start from one. You can take one to ten, but from zero to one is the hardest part. UiZard will help us do exactly that.  And then we're going to bring that design into Figma. And we're going to innovate on top of it. We're going to design it in a way that we want our design to be. Then we have the prototype.  As I already showed you the Wasco app where we have screens connected here and there. So that way we're going to connect and make the app interactive with each other so that the person who is going to develop it will know how it should react when some user wants to work with it. Then at the final stage, once the design process is complete, we're going to send it for development and I'm going to show you some of the best practices you should follow to make sure that it's  So hopefully you'll find this part of the course really, really exciting. And at the end of the course, I have a really good surprise for you as well. So stay tuned for that and let's get started. 

How to create a Moodboard

 Hey everyone, welcome back. And in this video, we're going to cover how you can create mood board, how you should present the mood board to the client, and what are the main benefits of giving a mood board or creating a mood board before starting the design. So let's get started. So before we start the mood board, let's revisit the idea that we have created. And then we're going to start with the mood boarding process. So as you know, the idea we decided on was the mental wellness companion app.  An app that focuses on mental health, offering mood tracking, stress relieving activities, mindfulness exercises and connecting users with mental health professionals for support.  Basically a 360 mental wellness app which we are going to create for this project. So to create a mood board, you first need websites where you can get inspiration from. So here are the list of top 5 websites that I use personally for getting inspired for creating mood board. First is Behance. Behance I think is a website directly from Adobe.  and Dribbble is another good website. These websites are basically where people showcase their work and they talk about how the design and everything. So you can find pretty good quality of design but there are few things that should be aware before going to this website that I'm going to discuss in shortly. So let's go to our Figma file and create our mood board template first.  So here we are in our Figma file. As you can see, this is where I explain all the older concepts. Let's create a new page. We are going to name it simply mood board.  Okay, so first of all, let's discuss what are the importance of mood board. Mood board helps in one single thing, helping you make design decisions very, very fast. So another thing is very important, that is decreasing the number of revisions. So say some client gave you this project of creating a mental health app UI design.  Before even showing the client anything about the mood board and anything like that, you just created the whole UI design and showed it to the client. There are 99% of the chances the client will say no, but you will think, okay, I might not be that good in designing. But it's not you, it's not him, it's the situation. Because the thing is, the thing that he had in mind when he was thinking about a mental health app and what you designed might be completely opposite.  Sometimes what we feel the user needs isn't what he needs. So that's why creating a mood board and sending it to the client gives you the freedom to know, okay, this is what the client likes, this is what he doesn't like, before wasting your time into creating the actual design.  because mood boarding is a very straightforward very simple process you can create it very fast but creating a whole app design again might be a little pain so that's why create a mood board every time before even you start the design process so now that we know why mood boards are important let me show you what is the template that i use for creating a mood board so i just create a normal  frame in the center of the file after the frame is created as you can see let me make it something like 1920 or 1080 by 1080 okay so this is my frame for example I like to have a 3 by 3 grid so I will create frames of like this and I'll fill them up with some sort of a color just for the time being  Okay, and I'll create a three by three grid. So just duplicate it by holding Alt or Option and dragging it like this. And we're gonna use auto layout. I already explained this process to you. So I'll probably just speed up this part. I'm just using auto layout and aligning things. That's all, nothing fancy.  So this is the layout that I prefer for having a mood board. This is pretty presentable and also so the client will appreciate if you give him something organized like this. So previously I just used to create mood board like collage, randomly placing things and giving to the client but  the issue was in my head I know where I get what from but in the client's aspect it doesn't like that right so very simple layout and now we are going to go to those websites which I talked about so we are going to go there and one by one we are going to visit every site so one second so first website is bh  Next one would be our design inspiration. And the next one would be nice. And then we have the inspiration grid.  So once we have all the sites that we need, let's go through them one by one. So when you visit VeeHands, you have to probably create an account. Once you're done, you will see something like this. Okay, and here you will search whatever you are designing.  So I think I found some good ideas. So you have to do this thing sometimes. You have to change, switch up the terms that you're using. Sometimes UI UX will work, sometimes design will work, sometimes just mental app will work. Based on whatever keyword is that time people are using in their posts, that way you will know. So let's look at a few of these. Let's see how they actually look. So this is a mental app called Froggy.  And as I can see, they haven't given a lot of info. So they have here a wireframe kind of a situation. Colors, illustrations, typography. And overall, I think they're looking for a very, like, undertones, minimalistic kind of a look.  So this is a pretty good case study. But I don't really like their concept, so I'm not going to use any of it from here. Let me see other things. This is called the Genie app. This looks premium.  I don't like this either. So let's skip this meditation app. I think this one's concept is pretty good. They also have like a promotional or intro video. I think this is something that I can go for. So what I'm gonna do is I'm just gonna create, I'm just gonna use aspects of this design in the mood board that we're gonna create.  So sometimes what can happen is you want to screenshot something but it's just too big. So just make the browser window scale down. So control minus or command minus will do the job. So I'll just take small, small screenshots here and there that I'm going to use in the Figma. So first one, I'm going to fill with this.  And so we have one like this. Whatever aspect of design that you think looks good, you can copy it. So that was the only part I found useful. This is a mood tracking app.  This is like a gamified version of the mood tracking app and this looks pretty decent but I would appreciate if there was less colors here. I think though it still looks good enough.  I already like the use of colors here so let's keep this one as well because I want the colors to be minimalistic like this one  This is like a very flowy kind of a design. So everything, illustrations to colors, everything is very flowy. So I'm going to just take a screenshot from here of this. I'm going to add it to our mood board.  And they don't necessarily have to be like mobile app design, you can have web design as well. Anything that you think will look good in your app or might help you be inspired, those can be it. I really like this design as well.  So if you look at it, I'm trying to get designs which are very similar. So even though this might look in different coloring kind of situation, like this is green, this is white, this is purple and more colored in a dark tone, but the illustration and the overall feel, all of them have the same very flowy kind of a nature.  here also and here as well. So that's what I'm going for for this mood board. If you think there are several ways you can create, you can approach the design, you can create multiple mood boards and send them to the client. But for the first part, I would recommend create one good mood board with all the best references you can have and send it to the client. In case the client says, I don't like this  They also have a very undertone kind of design and which looks nice. So we can take something from here also. Like this.  And I think we have explored Behance good enough. Let's look at the other websites as well, like Dribbble. So, for example, I'm going for Inspiration here.  This is like a more modern, funky design. And this is good. But only thing is, this is not what we are looking for. This is something that I'm looking for. So let me quickly sign in from my Google account because you need to sign in to view the designs. So as you can see, they have a pretty good design style. So I'm going to copy this as well and add it to our mood board.  so now let me tell you one thing that i told you that i'm going to explain later on that the thing you should be cautious before you start taking inspiration from these websites so if you look at a design like this you will see  like the fonts used are very weird, but if you look at them from a distance, right, or you look at them in a way that they are presented, they look really well, they look really good.  But when you actually use the app, the user might have to stress a lot to read these things actually. And this is a very small example. There are things where it's very difficult for the user to navigate throughout the app. For example, you can see in these sections below.  They don't necessarily need to be connected of any sort. If they're doing anything, they're making it confusing for the user. They think that this might be two buttons will be connected and all. So this is just done for aesthetically pleasing the design and making people at Dribbble look good.  So if you find something like this, I would say avoid anything that looks out of the box but is impractical. Always avoid that because we are not doing graphic design. We are doing UI UX design. So you really need to have a purpose for anything to make sense. So let me have a look at other apps. This one is also good.  If you are trying to see a pattern, I'm really liking the light greenish type of designs for this mental health app. So I think this one is pretty good as well and in the same style that we're looking for. So let's copy this one also.  And finally, I think this one should be good enough for the last panel as well. Let's copy this one.  So our mood board is mostly complete. One thing is there for websites which we're looking for mostly for UI UX design, I would say Behance and Dribbble are like the 90% of the part there. And other websites like Design Inspiration and all that, they are good for graphic design and poster design themes. But if you want, you can get inspired from posters and graphics also.  So our mood board is filled up with these two websites only. So I'm going to keep it simple. And I'm just going to format the mood board in a more presentable way. So for that, I'm just going to select the background color and use the background of these images so that they look  So I think we are pretty much good and you might be thinking why did I leave the center part of the design blank. This is just to gather the prominent colors of all designs that we have got. So for that, I'm just going to create four small, small frames with each one with its own color.  And each one I'll devote to one of the major colors. So for this one, I'm going to keep it white. And this one should be beige. Next, this should be light green. And this one should be some darker color, which you can use this one.  So if you see, the format is pretty nice from now itself. And one second, I'm going to make it a little less spacing.  So that's it for our mood board. And we're going to send this to, like in an ideal case, when you get a client project, you'll send this to the client and the client will have a look and think, okay, this is the theme that I can go with.  And remember one thing, these don't necessarily have to be your brand colors. It's just the feel of the mood board. You can even swap the green with the red or blue later on. So it's just for the shade and tone of the overall design. Because if you look at it, this green is very different than the very vibrant greens that we see in traffic lights. So this is just like a hue saturation thing.  that you can keep constant and change the color and this and that but this is to just communicate what this palette is trying to make and as per your as per your thoughts you can create as many mood boards as you want and select one to go with I'm going to with this minimalistic type of style laid-back relaxing kind of a style  So I'm just renaming it as mood board. So now that we have mood board ready, we are gonna go to the next step for design where we're gonna decide the colors and the text and the fonts and all that stuff. So let's move on to those steps next. 

Selecting appropriate Brand Colors

 Welcome back everyone. So in this video, we are deciding what brand colors are we going with. So as you have already have a small idea that we are going with this like minimalistic kind of a view, where we have very unsaturated colors for the app. So for that, we're gonna use the coolers.co, the website I showed you in the color theory module. So let's open the website and decide what color we are going with.  So knowing that this is a mental health app, you have to make a few assumptions and that's how you're going to select what colors we're going with. First of all, it needs to be peaceful. So it should be very, very less saturated and very undertone so that someone  can't feel overwhelmed with your app. Next thing it should be is it should be minimalistic so that it gives peace of mind. Third thing it can have colors like green for having a very natural kind of a vibe. It can also have color orange as well. So those are the two main colors I think will be really good for this app.  because orange signifies liveliness and vitality so orange and green also symbolizes vitality as well so any of these colors  I think should be pretty good and colors like pink and all should also work. Let's start the generator and see what colors that we get and we get we like. Also one more thing, you can explore the trending palettes here as well. So in case you're running the generator for a long time and you cannot decide, you can just scroll through here and find a good palette and just use it directly.  And remember one thing, colors are not copyrightable. So you can also just copy paste the same color palette that someone else uses. But I would say refrain from that because that way you will lose your differentiation in the branding for your app. So let's start the generator and see what we get.  So from the start, we have a pretty good colors from the start only. I really like these three colors. I'm gonna lock in this green. So let's see if we get something even better than this. I like this brown as well. Let's keep this brown also for the darker colors that we're gonna use.  Okay, let's deep green is also good either this or this we can use for darker shades Now we just want a super light color for the accent This is pretty good, but this is too white I want a beige type white And this is like a skin color Try something else  Hmm, I think lavender is pretty good. So these are the four colors that we I think can go with these three especially. Let's maybe try some more variations here if we find something. I don't think we are getting anything better than these. So let's delete this.  And we have these four colors. Let's go to Figma and decide any three or four colors that we're gonna use. So we'll just go export this thing as an image. And we'll just say meditation app. Once we have this, we're gonna go back to Figma. And after the mood board, we're gonna import those, that image, right?  And in this image, we are going to do some small, small things for making sure that this color palette actually works. First of all, we'll create a few layers. So these four layers we have. So one by one, we're  get the deep brown color from over here, the light green and the lavender. So once we have all of them, we're going to do the contrast checking from some websites. So just search contrast checker and you will find some good websites. So coolers also had a contrast checkers.  So let's open the contrast checker. What contrast checker does is, how well will it look on top of some other color or how visible it will look. So for example, here I am. I'm gonna try this. Let's try this color. On top of it, we're gonna try all of these colors. So backgrounds with this color. Okay. And on top of it, we have first the green.  now you can see the quality is very poor so we cannot use this green color over this background right next we have this brown okay this has pretty good score so this passes let's try this  this also pass so we have obviously they will pass they will very dark so what we can do is either decrease the white increase the whiteness of this part this one so let's see if this will work with the lighter green even with a whitest color available  Okay, so this green is just not that good of like visible, visibility standpoint. Now let's try this green over these colors. So we're going to have these them as a background color. As you can see, the results are pretty good and it looks great as well. Same with this guy.  Yeah, same. So what we can deduce is all of these colors are useful, but we cannot use the green over this color. That's it. All of them are pretty compatible. So whenever you're using green, you have to have this as a background color, and that way we can make it work. So I want to keep all of them. So what we can do is we can create a color palette something like this.  where we have the maximum portion as white okay then we have the next majority by this brown so it would look something like this okay sorry not brown I wanted to use the this color the deep green so here which majority will have deep green like this  Okay, and the next majority will be this green, which will be inside this color and it will be something like this. And we can have the brown even less than the green itself. So it will look something like this. So this is our final color palette.  and looking at it in this way, I think this lavender color doesn't suit us that well. So what I'm gonna do is, I'm just gonna slide the lavender-ish tone to more of a reddish tone, so that it becomes a little beige.  Now I really like the design and the visibility still will be the same because I did not mess with any other property. I just changed the hue of the design. That's it. So the lavender will still be good enough for these contrast parameters. So this is our overall color panel. This is just a small representation to show you the proportion that we're going to use these colors.  But apart from that, now in the design system, we will have them as standard palettes. Now that we have the color setup done, in the next video, we're going to decide what fonts we are going to use for this brand. So let's move on to that part. 

Selecting Fonts

Hey everyone, welcome back. So in the last video, we decided what colors we're going to use for our app. And in this video, we're going to decide what are the font combinations we are going to use for our app. So for fonts, as I explained to you earlier in the typographic chapter that there are several types of fonts, Serif, Sans Serif, Script, and  script and display. So, Serif we are not going to use for this app and Sans Serif is the type of font we are going to go with. It is because our app needs to be modern, minimalistic and it should be not intimidating and usually what places we use Serif font is for premiumness and giving a sense of luxury and elegance.  We don't need those feelings in this app, so let's go with Sans Serif and let me show you the website that I usually use for going for a good font. So that website is called Google Fonts.  So there are several websites you can use for searching fonts. The professional ones are Google fonts, Adobe fonts and like this. You will find the best fonts and while selecting fonts, you have to make sure one thing aligns with the font. That way you will not have a lot of  like headache and deciding font combinations that is by having families or styles of the same font for example popins this has 18 styles means the popin font can be used in 18 different like width of the font so how much you want you can select how like bold you want the font to be  Like this, you have to select a font which has a very wide range of family. That way, you don't have to use another font with this font to make that hierarchical difference that we are looking for. So, for that, I'm going to use a very good sans serif font. Let's look around and see what we can get.  So we go to Google Fonts, and we turn on the filter. What are we looking for? So we are looking for Sans Serif. And there is another category added on the... You can't find this category in most websites, but this is called a Slab Serif. So this font is like a Serif font with the edges to be like boxes.  so let me show you how it will look like so as you can see these edges are not sharp at the end these are blocky kind of an edges and these are good for posters movie poster i think a very famous bollywood movie is also using the same font i think student of the year i guess so student year so yeah they are using uh  Slab Serif font. So if you see, let me open it. You can see they are using like a Slab Serif font in the poster. You can see the edges are very very blocked but it's still not a Serif font. It's called a Slab Serif font.  So that's how you're going to see Slab Serif, but usually in UI designs, we don't use Slab Serif a lot. So I'm going for a Sans Serif design. So I'm going to make sure that we have Slab Serif selected. Apart from this, you don't have to select anything, but I would recommend one more thing to increase the styles to at least have more than three or four styles. That way you won't have to deal with fonts, which has very less amount of  flexibility available so let's see what options do are we left with so looking at these options I think the railway font can be a really good fit so for example we can search let's say we want to write something  So if you see this looks really good even in the wider things like and with more With more boldness and even if we have very thin it looks really good So let's use this font and this font looks very friendly as well and it's kind of a pretty industry standard So a lot of apps use railway as well So our font  And to download this font, you simply have to download the family. I think I probably have this font already. Let me just search for a second. Yeah, I have this font already. You just have to download the font and install it. It is just a one-click process. That's it.  So now that we have our font, we are going to decide what are the width, what are the size, pixel size, exact pixel size we are going to use. For that we have a really good website that is font-size-something and you can also use a plugin which you can search here. So here you can see font scale, I think it's called  this plugin, just run this plugin and here input the font that you are looking for. So what does a font scale means? So font scale come in a different ratios, so minor first, minor second, like this minor third and golden ratio as well.  So what font scale mean? So font scale help you give your design a way of symmetry and like a flowness of the design. So for example, if I select golden ratio, every next font is 1.618 times bigger than the last one. So if it is 0.168, we have one as the secondary font, we have 1.68, then we have 2.68,  4.68 then we have 4.263 like this we keep on increasing with a certain like value in mind from before so for this I'm gonna use like for app design you should go with the lower ends of the spectrum because for apps you don't  So minor third or major third can do the work pretty fine. So I'm gonna go with, I think, major third and a minor third is pretty good. So let's go with this one and just generate layers. So we'll have all these layers already created. What you have to do is just change the font here. Just change the font and that's it. You have your font.  font scale ready so if you look at it first font is 11.67 pixels next one is 14 then we have 16 then we have 24 and 29 this is the way we are going with  And you can also have another variation of your font that is the width variation. So this will be the regular that we're gonna use everywhere, okay. And apart from this, okay, let me remove this from this group. Apart from this, we're gonna also have a bolder version and just one more, which will be the black version.  So these three variations and these three variations we are going to use in combination for our styling. So Railways are font and these are the variations we are going to use. So I hope this font selection video was pretty helpful. Let's move on to the next video and decide what  So I hope this font selection video was pretty helpful. Now that we have all the variations in one place, let's move to the next video where we are going to create a design system based on all these variations. 

Creating your Design System

Hey everyone, welcome back. And in this video, we're going to create a design system by using variables inside of Figma. So let's get started. First, we're going to go to the local variables tab and create a new variable group. So we're going to create a new collection, which will be like mental health app or MH. And we're going to name it as primitives.  So you can directly name it as primitives, but as I already have a primitive file for the old designs, I'm gonna create a new one where we have image primitives. Now we're gonna create the variables. First variable will be our page. I don't know if I'm spelling page right or not, but let's go with it.  select the beige color okay and in the dark mode uh we don't have anything for the dark i'm going to create another variable where it will be called deep green then another variable where it will be called light green okay and there will be brown  So once we have all this ready, we're gonna sample each color and make a variable from that.  So now that we have this primitive color setup, we're going to create text styles for the text design system, because the variables do not support text variation as styles yet. So for that, you can simply use the already created text and select that. Here you will see these four dots, and then just click on Create Style. You can name it something based on the M amount, 0.833EM. This is basically a sizing scale.  or to make it simple you can also make it something like 1em is like a normal 0.8 is like a small this one is like a extra large this one is called double extra large, triple extra large like this as the scale varies you can name it as you want so for this one I'm just gonna name it small okay and create a style like this the small style is created very very easily  this can be normal or standard this can be L this can be XL this can be XXL and last one can be XXXL which we can use for headings  okay like this you can make the variations for this and if you want you can break these as well so and this is the font weight we can use make it differ anyway we want for example i just wrote some random text like this it's a heading okay now the the text is completely far off from what we want it to be  right so we can simply do just one thing go here and select one style done and one more thing with these you can also create separate styles with these two variations as well for example i'm gonna create another style and another style second one will just have the bolds okay like this we're gonna just make everything bold here  so we have to first break this first then we can do anything once we break them, break the style boundaries then we can make them as bold okay first one isn't broken yet okay it is but for some reason it's not working just make that bold individually and rest of them one by one  So, all of them are bold now. Same thing we have to do with this one. So, I'll just copy this thing and make all of them extra bold. Very simple. Or black in this case. So, now that we have the styles ready, we just simply have to make each of them have one more style. So, for this we can use the same naming. We can name it  make it standard bold or we can change the naming as well and we can make it normal bold and we can name this also as something like normal  it can be called as n this is n bold this will be l bold this will be l xl bold like this you get the point i am gonna do with rest of them i am gonna fast forward this part probably and let me just do all of them and  So now we finally have our design system ready and just to make it show you really quickly how the design system will look like, I'm going to create a small type of presentation which we can showcase our design at other places as well. So for that, I'm just going to draw a frame of nine  Once the frame is there, first of all we're gonna make like this, the font as big. What font are we using? Then we can show off these as the three variations that we're gonna use. So this is like the font combinations and everything. Then we have our brand colors.  which we can represent by small circles. For that, I'm going to use a frame. And then I'm going to just make it rounded. You can't see it right now because I haven't added a fill. Just add a fill from here. And I can just search the library that I want to be. So this is the library that we're using. So first is page. Second one would be deep green.  be brown. Like this we can show them as well. This is like the color theory and like the branding of the app.  And I think apart from this, we don't have anything else to show. And on the right side, you can do one thing to make it look more creative. That is the design scale that I created for the colors the last time. So we're just going to fill it up first of all with beige, right? And then we're going to create small, small subsections, which we're going to use to represent what is the proportion of each color in the design.  like this so this is our branding for the mental health app so hopefully you found this design system video interesting and this is like a cool way you can showcase your designs like the branding of your designs you don't have to show it exactly like this i just chose it to do this way because our design system is like this you can choose any way any creative way you like and let's move on to the next video 

