AI Tools Arsenal


AI Tools Arsenal

Hey everyone, this is Avinash. So this is a whole new course called AI Tool Arsenal. So this is where you're going to get a lot of value. So what we did is, the last nine months, I've been tested, at least I tested, me and my team of course, tested at least 500,000 tools, right?  if I'm not sure more than 700 like 500 is a very conservative estimate so what we did is we tested almost every single tool that is available in the market that had at least good and decent website because a tool with a very bad website is like obviously you know we don't trust it so we went there and almost tested every single tool out there  and this unit tools are the final list that we considered that it actually adds some kind of a value for at least certain amount of people right so the best part is these are  These are not some random tools that we got by watching 100 different YouTube videos or blog posts and stuff like that. These are tested by, dedicatedly, me and my team, refined, and the whole description was just described after using the tool from the scratch. The pros and cons were actually written by my team after using it for some time.  every single tool we have right here 300 tools is used at least in the minimum case for 30 minutes in the maximum case we use a few tools for like days so it's a nine months of effort to create this AI tools arsenal for you we just thought of doing it 100 or 150 but then i just wanted to go over the board and give as many tools quality  that blog post or that LinkedIn post or YouTube Twitter post that says chat repeating is good but these 8 tools can revolutionize blah blah blah. I do those posts too but  you don't need to waste any single second in your life from tomorrow to watch these kind of videos every single damn tool will be there in here if it is good and the best part is it's constantly been updating like i have a dedicated you know lady in my team  that only does this research on different AI tools and then give me the feedback. I'll have a look at it like quick glance and then approve it and I will place it here and  out of three or four tools we only placed one tool in here right so and we are adding alternatives also there are many times you are stuck with very expensive tool and we when we find something so good but it's very costly we are now going and searching their alternatives like you know try we try like anywhere between three four tools to get one good alternative for something similar you know something similar  So yeah, so this is what we are doing right now and it will be constantly updated every single week. New tools will be added. The tools that are getting bagged and redundant will be deleted and we'll keep doing it, right? Mostly, I'll try not to delete the tools but just keep updating them so that you will have multiple options and the database will be there.  And yeah, maybe we'll maybe add the date section also so that you'll know when this tool was added and stuff like that. So you'll have name, category, pricing, description, pros and cons. So, you know, imagine you want you have a tool requirement to do certain thing. We'll just quickly see what category is it and the category is in the chronological order. If it is an image to image generation tool, it's all in just this area.  So if it is landing page, it's just in the same area. So it's chronologically Made so that you will be not Required to search everything and of course you can just search also inside this excel sheet. So like these are like 300 AI tools approximately 313 and we'll keep updating them  and the pricing is there you can see imagine you wanted to build a website right so you kind of got it in 10 web and it's $20,000 rupees $20 per month and then we have alternatives for $14, $5 and then $8 and if it is like a freemium we are mentioning it's a freemium if there is no freemium we are mentioning it's a paid so everything  is already in here so hopefully this will help you guys to fast track your career in AI so we gave you prompts we gave you prompt template we gave you how the prompt works we gave you all the knowledge to become prompt engineer now after you have prompt engineering you have a knowledge plus everything about prompt engineering plus  You have AI tools right now. You absolutely don't need anything else to make maybe $2,000 to $10,000 per month in the next couple of months. You have everything. You should stop watching YouTube videos at least now if something is already there in the course.  when i recommend you to watch youtube videos to enlarge the knowledge or to get more knowledge only then you watch it okay so stop watching youtube videos scrolling random things everything is already available inside the course just do it guys just kindly implement stuff there is no way that you can't make two thousand dollars one thousand dollar or ten thousand dollars  in the best case scenario from just the whole content part of it so if you're not making it's problem with you right sorry for being a little rude but then i just wanted to be very frank that's it so and now this have 300 tools now if you find any tool which is little difficult and which and if you don't find a youtube tutorial on how to use the tool or you want  a walkthrough of the tool just comment down below the tool name and the word walkthrough just mention if you want engine gpt and dash walkthrough if you want just mention this in the comment section maybe in a couple of weeks i'll see all the walkthroughs needed and me or my team will just make walkthroughs of all those videos so  all the tools you need walkthroughs for which you can't and by the way guys if it is very obvious don't ask for the walkthrough because 300 videos is impossible it will kill our time that in the meantime we can create a better quality videos of other content like which is much more valuable if you if you have the walkthrough in their youtube channel or if it is so obvious don't ask us only if you're stuck with something  you know which is like if it is little complex like RunwayML or Kyber.al little complex than things will do it if it is so obvious please don't ask us so it will just kill kill the quality of videos for like two weeks will just do this random walkthroughs that will not that is already available on YouTube so I don't want to be in that position so yeah  So that's it. To summarize the entire video. This is like 300 videos. They'll keep 300 AI tools. They'll keep updating. And we have absolutely everything. Don't watch any AI tools video or anything related to AI tools from now on because we're doing all the work for you. Just start executing. Go to that AI montage section. We have like already 20 videos approximately if I'm not sure. If I'm sure. If I'm not wrong.  choose one and then implement it you might fail but just do something else again so keep doing it and then you will just get better and better about it that's all for this video folks I just wanted to make this video to give the context of this tools and how did we do it and stuff like that so yeah again a reminder comment down below if you need a walkthrough which is not obvious bye bye thank you 

Create YouTube Video with AI - Mid Journey Thumbnail

Hello everyone, this is me Vedika and in this video we are going to see how you can use Midjourney to create your YouTube thumbnails. So you can use Midjourney to generate any kind of images but in this video we are particularly going to see how to generate YouTube thumbnails very easily, step by step. Okay, so let's dive in.  So as you can see on my screen, I have opened my MidJourney bot and to write my prompt for generating an image, I would go to this section, message section, and then I will type in slash imagine prompt. After that, I would add my prompt, which is this.  And to generate YouTube thumbnails, we need the aspect ratio to be 16 is to 9. So I would add the parameter hyphen 2 times AR 16 is to 9 and it's done. And I will press enter. Now, Midjourney will create the images related to our prompt. Now the images are generated and the numbering starts from 1, 2, 3 and 4.  So as I can see, the fourth image is pretty good and it is relevant to what my prompt is. So I will use that image and if I need to upscale that image, I have this four different options.  And if I need to make variations in the same image, I have this four different options, this V1 to V4 buttons. So I need this image. So I will click on upscale 4. And if I want more variations in the fourth image, I would click on V4. So I need to make more variations like to see what more a journey can create. I would click on V4 for more variations. And then submit.  Now as these images are generated, I will upscale the fourth image.  After scaling, as you can see, there are these different options which you can use for your particular image. So these are the very strong and very subtle options. Zoom out and there is a custom zoom option. So by default, there are two zoom out options provided, which is two times and 1.5 times. In custom zoom, you can add your own zoom out option, which ranges from one to two. So in between that decimal points,  you need to add your custom zoom out option. For the make square function, your image will be converted to the size of 1 is to 1. And these are the panning buttons. So panning buttons will help me to shift the focus and perspective of this particular image in any of the direction from this 4.  So now I need more variations, I need to add more parameters, I need to add more parameters for this image. So I will click on very strong and there will be a pop-up box. Okay. So now I will add my own parameters and stylize 100.  So the stylize option gives us different variations for the same image and the value for stylize option ranges from 100 to 1000. So now it's currently 1000. I would make that 2800 as per us. What particular change Midjourney has for us for this image? I would submit this.  Okay, so as we change the stylize option from 1000 to 800, these are the results which Midjourney generated for us. But I guess we would go with stylize 1000. So this is how you are going to work and like play with this tool to understand which parameter is giving you the perfect output.  So I would go with the same image which is stylized 1000 and if you see there is a parameter which is cute which is the quality parameter. So the quality parameter has these values which are only few like ranges from 1.25 and then 2. So like these are the only options currently available. Currently available. So if you want to change we can do that. Okay.  We can change and add more variations in this prompt. Okay, so I would click on very strong and I would change the quality parameter right here. See I would add 0.25 0.25. All right, and that's it. I will submit it. Let's see what it creates.  You see, these are totally different images which we received and we have generated only by changing the quality parameter. But quality parameter doesn't have to do anything with the resolution of the images, but you see the images are totally changed and I feel it gives very good output. The options, if you want to zoom out to your particular image, there are these options.  If you zoom out two times, then let's see what it creates. You see the amount of results. I mean, it's super stunning. Can you understand, like can you notice the zoom out difference? See, so first our image was looking like this. There were only four robots as what we have entered in our prompt.  But in the zoom out, like after applying the zoom out parameter, after applying the zoom out function, the robots have been increased. Like it is more kind of zoomed out and there is more area around that man. So this is what you can create using the zoom out function. I would now like to go to the spanning buttons. Spanning buttons  these is the left, this is the right, this is up and this is the down panning button. So one thing you need to note down is if you first do the panning left then afterwards you can only do panning left. Okay, you can't go to any other direction after that.  So I would do is panning up. Okay. Let's see what it can create for us. Okay. So the pan up button has created this image for us, but which is not relevant to our prompt, right? So, but if you want something more in your prompt in a particular direction, so it's okay. So you can use the panning buttons. You have got the idea, right?  Now have you all noticed how this images are generating like there is an initial image grade and then start and then slowly it starts getting developed the images are getting developed right so for that there is also a parameter which is a seed parameter which you can use to control the initial seed levels the grades for generating the images okay so that parameter will not influence the  output like the resulting image, but that is only for the initial image creed. Okay, I will show you how you can control that prompt. Okay, and slash imagine prompt. All right. So this is my prompt and I would add the seed parameter which is hyphen hyphen.  and I would add the value 1, 2, 3. That only accepts the whole numbers. Okay, let's see how the initial images are generated. Only the grid, it will not have any impact on the resulting image. Okay, all of these numbers would use the same feed number and like images to generate the initial grid. Okay.  you need to focus here like understand the difference between the initial what we have used without the seed parameter and this with the seed parameter. So as you have noticed all these images are in the same style as you can see and also the seed which was generating the noise that is basically the noise like you see on the television screens. So that is the main motive of the seed parameter.  Okay, so if you see we have generated this images like we want robots, but I don't find them more of robots, but they are like more of aliens. They look like aliens. So I can also control that I can control the prompt. So for that we need to add a parameter which is no. Okay, so I will just like add variation in this prompt for that I would be using  For example, I would be using the first image. So I would do v1 and then add a prompt parameter which is no. Okay, hyphen, hyphen, no aliens. Okay, I don't want that robots to look like aliens. So let's see what Midjourney has for us.  You see, can you see the difference in the first image? The images were looking like aliens and not robots but we added the negative parameter which is no to make those alien looking robots to look actually like robots. So you can see it's looking like robots. So you can control what you want in the prompt and at the same time you can add what you don't want in the prompt. So for that you are going to use the no parameter. Now there is this another  very useful and interesting thing you can do with mid journey that is to generate images in a particular style. So in particular style of any painter or like any of the particular style of the images. So these are the default images which are generated. If you add a particular style, for example, I would generate the same images in the style of cyberpunk. So we will see how we can do that. We just need to add here before the parameters looking at him.  and then cyberpunk. Okay, if I add this parameter, it will generate these images in the style of cyberpunk and you will see the difference. You see how all of these images look in the style of cyberpunk. Like these all images have the same style. But in the previous image if you see,  the style of this image is different and the style of this image is totally different. But then we have added this cyberpunk expression so all of these images look like cyberpunk. So this is the way you can generate any images in the style of like anything which you wish. So like now you as you see we are generating the images and there are only four images which are getting generated in the same one grid.  But if you want more grades at the same time, so for that you are going to use the repetition parameter for that you will use the repeat parameter. Okay. So for that you will need to write your prompt which is imagine slash slash imagine prompt and then then add your prompt. I have added my prompt and after that you will write hyphen repeat three times.  Okay, so there will be three grades generating. So from that you there will be like a lot of options for you to select. Okay, and I will press the enter. Okay, so while generating my journey is again asking us like do you want like three different grades then we will say yes and then generate it again three out of your three jobs are getting processed.  So at the same time, three different grids will be generated for us. So in one single prompt, you can generate like three into four, like 12 images at the same time. You see.  These are the four images, like one grid, this is another grid, and this is another grid. So in one prompt, we have generated these 12 images. So you just need to use one parameter, which is repeat parameter, and add the value. And these are your results. So you can choose any of your image from these results.  One more important thing that you need to understand is that now we are generating all of these things in version 5.2 for mid journey. But if you need to change the version of mid journey, so for this you need to type in slash settings and then enter. So this will have a pop-up box for you and you need to select like you can change the model.  So this is the mid journey model with 5.2 and from here you can change any of the models and then use accordingly. But these everything will be the same like how you are going to use it.  Okay, so this is how you can change the mid journey settings. So now to create a thumbnail, I really liked this output as well. So I will upscale this and we will create a thumbnail. So I will upscale the second image and I will download it. For downloading the image, it's very simple. We will just wait for that image to get generated. You see, this looks so stunning.  So I will just now we have all the tried all the options tried all the functions which are very important and you all have understood like how you can use them. So I will click on this image. And then right click. And save my image to the device.  Okay, so I just want you all to look at this image that we have generated with all the variations, the parameters and like trying everything. So this is our thumbnail, the base image that we are going to use. We need to add the text for this image which is related to our YouTube topic. So now let's move on to the next part. So as you can see on my screen, I have opened Canva and then I will open the image that we created in Midjourney.  and for that we will go to create design and then import file and the importing the file which we have saved to our device. Now I will click on use in a new design, custom size and then create a new design. Okay, so now our image is imported in Canva. Now we need to add  a text on it which is like what our video is about. So I will go to this text option, add a heading. From here there are different options like you can choose any kind of style that you want to use. I would just go to heading and then add exploring AI. Alright, so exploring heading I would change the font style.  Now to make it look more dramatic according to our image, I would just go to this option for effects and then add the option outline or something like that. And then I would keep the outline to be black. Okay, I would keep it black but I would change the text color to yellow because it goes more with what the image is about.  And I will make this a little bit dried. So I guess our thumbnail is ready using my journey and Canva for adding the text. This is how you are going to use and explore this tool for making your YouTube thumbnails or like whatever images that you want to generate. And I hope this video has helped you a lot to understand everything about my journey like how you are going to use it. Now see you all in the next video. 

Create YouTube Video with AI - Mid Journey Thumbnail

 Hello everyone this is me Vedika and I am back with another tutorial. In this tutorial we will see how we can create an entire YouTube video and you don't need any other editor or anyone else but you will only use AI tools to create your YouTube video and your YouTube video will be created within minutes. So now let's start with our tutorial.  For our YouTube video, we need a script. And for writing script, we don't need any content or copywriter and no script writer. We can generate our own script with Chatshippity. And Chatshippity helps us to generate our script and it is not only limited to like brainstorming ideas, but the plus version of Chatshippity 4 helps us with its plugins for creating more content.  As you can see on my screen, I have opened ChargerPity and then I will use this prompt to generate my script. You can screenshot this prompt and make changes according to your YouTube video and then use this prompt to generate your script.  This is my prompt and I have entered everything that I want in my script and to be included in my script. I have mentioned my target audience and what should be the words, like everything. Okay, so now I will press enter. Now, Chaijipati will make a video script for us.  Alright, so as you all can see, Chagpity has generated a video script for us. I will not directly use this script but I will make changes accordingly like wherever we need and then use this script for creating our video. And for creating a video, we are not going to manually edit a video but we are going to use an AI tool that will help us to directly create a video using this script.  So, in the next part, we will see how we can create a YouTube video using the AI script that we have generated using ChargerPity. So, now let's see you all in the next part. 

Create YouTube Video with AI - WellSaid labs Voiceover

 Hello everyone, so now that we have our script ready for our YouTube video and editing, we need an AI audio, AI voice over for our video, right?  So we are going to use WellSaid Labs AI tool to generate our audio. And we are using WellSaid Labs because it is very user-friendly and easy to generate our audio. And the best part for using WellSaid Labs is that it has various options and various avatars to select from, which are close to human voices. Like I will show you all here. If we go to Studio,  and then if you select here you can see there is an option for AI avatars right here so see see all avatars and there are various avatars for you from male and female to select from and most of them sound like human voices so hence being costly  We are suggesting this AI tool for AI voiceovers and AI audio because it is worth it and we have tried like number of AI tools and we found this tool the best for this purpose. So, I have opened this section which is studio and then I will enter my script right here. So, I have pasted my script right here and I would click on create single text. Okay.  I will click on this button and it will generate an AI audio voiceover for us. Okay, so as you can see here, max you can enter the script which includes 5000 characters and our script is having 2733 characters, so it is possible for us to generate the script.  If we scroll down below, you can see that our voiceover is generated and we will play and check if it is perfect and if there are any changes for us to make, we will click on this T button and then make changes and it will create and make changes for this particular part and generate it again. So, I will now just see if everything is perfect.  Hey there, fellow knowledge seekers. Welcome to our journey into the fascinating world of artificial intelligence.  Okay, so I have checked this recently created audio and it sounds perfect. But sometimes it happens that you have written a particular word and the audio is something else, like the pronunciation is different. So if you need to make any changes how it sounds, so there's this option right here which is pronunciation and if you go here, how few words are pronounced.  So, if you see, AutoGPT is pronounced like Auto-G-P-T. So, the spelling is different. So, while writing your script, make sure you add the phonetic spelling. But now, everything sounds perfect for my script. So, we will move on to the next part.  This is another option where you can change the voice style of the audio. For currently, we have used the conversational style. If you want that to be in form of narration, like someone is narrating a story, then you can select the narration style. So, it all depends on the type of video that you are creating and you can change the voice style from here.  Okay so now our audio is generated using this AI tool. Now we need to download that and use it in our video. So I would click on this option to download and then there are various different options to download them. I need the audio right so I will download the mp3 file and save it in my device.  Now I have opened this downloaded MP3 audio file which we have created from our script and this is how it sounds.  So you see how easy it was to create an AI audio voice over for our video. We did it within 5 minutes. So it is so simple. Now we have our audio ready. We need to import that in our video. Now see you all in the next part. 

Create YouTube Video with AI - Veed IO Video Editing

 Hello everyone this is me Vedika and I am back with another tutorial. In this tutorial we will see how we can create an entire YouTube video and you don't need any other editor or anyone else but you will only use AI tools to create your YouTube video and your YouTube video will be created within minutes. So now let's start with our tutorial.  For our YouTube video, we need a script. And for writing script, we don't need any content or copywriter and no script writer. We can generate our own script with Chatshippity. And Chatshippity helps us to generate our script and it is not only limited to like brainstorming ideas, but the plus version of Chatshippity 4 helps us with its plugins for creating more content.  As you can see on my screen, I have opened ChargerPity and then I will use this prompt to generate my script. You can screenshot this prompt and make changes according to your YouTube video and then use this prompt to generate your script.  This is my prompt and I have entered everything that I want in my script and to be included in my script. I have mentioned my target audience and what should be the words, like everything. Okay, so now I will press enter. Now, Chaijipati will make a video script for us.  Alright, so as you all can see, Chagpity has generated a video script for us. I will not directly use this script but I will make changes accordingly like wherever we need and then use this script for creating our video. And for creating a video, we are not going to manually edit a video but we are going to use an AI tool that will help us to directly create a video using this script.  So, in the next part, we will see how we can create a YouTube video using the AI script that we have generated using ChargerPity. So, now let's see you all in the next part. 

Be a Music producer with VoiceMod

 Hello everyone this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial where you can be a music producer. You heard that right because I have this another tool which is voice mod and you can use that to create your own songs. Now let's see how you can do that.  I am using VoiceMod because it is very easy to use. You can create your own music. You can also do the text to song, the speech and text to speech. There are many features in VoiceMod which you can use to create your own AI music. There are different avatars available which sounds more like human voices. So now let's see how we can use that.  Alright, so you can see I have opened VoiceMod on my screen and you can create your own song. How you can do that? So this is a user interface. For this, firstly you need to check for the song, like what kind of song you want. Now let's try this.  okay I kind of like the second type okay so I will select that okay I will click on this and I want to start from scratch right so I will like change it I have selected the second song style and then I will press next there you need to select your singer okay now let's see which singer we need to select  Let's see how he sounds. No, I don't like him. That's okay. That's too much. Okay, so I will go with Ami. I will select Ami and then click on the next part. Now we need to enter our lyrics. I already have a lyrics copy. I will just paste this here.  Alright, so I have my lyrics copied. I will paste it here and I will click on create song. Now let's see how it goes.  Okay, so now as you can see on the screen, our song is ready. Okay, our song is ready and there are two options which is voice and music and only voice. So, you can hear that only voice without any music and this with music. But we need music for this, right? So, let's see how our song is generated.  You only need the light when it's burning low Only miss the sun when it starts to snow Only know you'll love, only you'll love  okay this was pretty good i actually like this song and yes you can create copyright free songs here because you can create copyright free songs because you are going to write your own lyrics and you are going to generate your own song so you can  So you can use your song for like any platform which is copyright free and there are numerous community songs available, various sounds available when you will explore this VoiceMod AI tool. I really like this song which is generated. Okay so that is done and once your song is generated you need to click on download.  okay if you want the video you can download the video or if like the mp4 format and if you want the song you can download in the mp3 format i would download both of them and that is totally up to you how you want that i want the video so i will download the video  Once that is done, if you explore this voice mod AI tool more, you can find that in create content, these are the different options for you. Like upload a sound, share your best sound clips with the community, like if you want to share something with other people. And then if you want to create a song, that is what we have just created. And generate speech from text, like you can create a speech from the lyrics or the text that you want.  you need to click on here and I will show you all exactly how you can do that. So, once you click on that option, you will see there's an option to pick a voice character, like which voice you want. Let's see how it sounds. Okay, that is 2D bass.  I need to change the voice, so I will click on the change the voice. C. Let VoiceMod do the talking for you. Let VoiceMod do the talking for you. Okay. I would select Vicky. I'll drag and then select here. I would enter my text here. Okay. I am  good and then click on generate let's see what speech it generates for us how are you i am good all right so like this is the demo text which i use to like demonstrate you all you can use the text which fits under 200 characters as you saw there is a limit of 200 characters so you can use and create speech of it  If you want to add more voice effects to your audio, you can click here and then select a voice effect like different kind of voice effects. It's like totally explorable tool for AI audio. Let's see now how it sounds. How are you? I am good.  Okay, it kind of added a blocks effect like if I've understood how you can create your own song using VoiceMod AI tool and it is really very easy and the results are also great. I really liked it. So this is how you can use the VoiceMod AI tool. You can be a music producer creating various songs. See you all in the next video. 

Get Ideas in Seconds with Perplexity

 So hello everyone, I'm back with another AI tutorial to make your research game very easy. Since we have chosen Perplexity AI because Perplexity AI is a very powerful research tool because you can control from where you are getting all the sources. Okay, you can control the sources like where you need to ask the question and then get that answer in form of resources and links to other sources.  So now let's see how you can exactly do that. I have opened Perplexity AI on my screen and this is my account. I will just continue. Okay. You can do it for free. And you can also get the Perplexity app for your phone. You can ask any question that you want. I would ask this question right here.  So this is the box where you need to ask your question. You can switch that to CoPilot 5 which is more advanced version. Okay. I will ask the question which is 6, important and I will press enter.  You can check that it is providing us with numerous results only related to our question. Like there are various, various sources and you can find many answers here. Okay, look at this.  So it is like a really good research AI tool for you to research everything and any question that you want. And you saw right how we have generated our research content from all the sources at one place together. So we can read that all together to increase our knowledge. Okay.  Specific questions, for example, if I go to home and then I would search for this question like, what should be my target audience for a fitness brand?  for a fitness brand, okay? And then I will check what it has for me. So now you saw, it has this pop-up box where we need to enter what is the main focus of our question. So now I want the... So as you saw, our question was not that clear. So to make it more clear, it is asking us, what is your fitness brand about? So we will say that it is about fitness apparels. And then I will continue.  Now let's see what more information it has for us. So it has gathered all of the information from different sources and we have this information right in front of us at one place so we can explore. As you can see this is the reference number which states that it is a link to another source. So if we click here we are going to get directed to another source  for more information. So we can explore this too. So we can explore this too. If you want something more which is related to the same question, you can ask for a follow-up that if my target audience for this fitness brand, particular fitness brand is this and you are giving me this information, how I can utilize that target audience to increase my brand?  how I can, all right, so it will give us the required information. And the very important part you have to consider is that we can do the same thing with Chargipati, but Chargipati doesn't give us the information, which is like current online information, right? So, it is providing us the current online information from different sources. So, I guess that is really, really important because we are also getting the legitimate sources for the information being provided.  Now it is asking what is the main focus. So, I want brand awareness. I would continue and then it will give us more information related to it. You see this has summarized all of the sources together which was 31 sources and it has summarized us the information which is required by us, which is required. So, you can explore this  So you can explore this information and keep on asking the follow-ups or if you want something new, you can do that as well. So if you want something new, so you can do that as well. So I hope you all have understood how you can use Perplexity AI for your research purpose with legitimate sources to the information provided so that you can actually validate the information being provided and use it for your research team.  So now see you all in the next video. 

Generate Leads 10x Faster with Snov IO

 Hello everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tool tutorial for you all so you can increase your leads, sales and also revenue. You can do this exactly using this AI tool which is Snov.io. So we are going to use Snov.io to extract the leads of your target audience. So now let's dive in to know how you can exactly do it.  So, we have chosen Snov.io for this purpose because it helps us to extract the leads from any website which you are visiting. You can also extract leads from LinkedIn with this LinkedIn Extractor Chrome extension, okay, which Snov.io itself is providing.  Well, you see I have already extracted few leads for my business. But now I will show you all how you can do that. So, we will visit one site. Okay. Very easy. Now let's see how you can do that. So, I am on this site. I am on this site. And if you want to extract the leads,  So, you will enable that Chrome extension which Snov.io is providing. And once that is enabled, you will see the Chrome extension which is accessible here. And I will click here. Wait for it to search for the leads. You can see that it has extracted leads for us. Alright.  We are not going to stop here because along with this lease, it is also providing us what is their designation in the company. If you click on prospects, you will see the designation as well and we have the email id of the CEO.  Alright, so Flipkart was just one example for your target audience. If your target audience is from any niche, any brand, you can visit their website and extract the leads from there and you can use those leads, their email IDs to email them your pitch.  you need to work with okay like if you wish to work with someone from a particular company and you want their email id so this is your go-to ai tool to get your email to get their email id along with their designation and reach out to them okay so you got the email id i will click on this  company name and you will see that it is also showing us which email id is currently active and which is not. Okay, so now if I want the email id of CEO, I will click on add to list. We will create one list. Okay, for example, I want to create new list which is for e-commerce.  okay i will create this list and this lead will go in our list for e-commerce right so we have added this email id to our list which we are going to use we all right so now you have extracted their email ids you have extracted the email ids of your leads and now you want  and from here you can export your list and save it in your device. See how easy it was to get the leads for your target people like the companies you want to work with, like the brands you want to work with. This is the best AI tools for freelancers who are working to get leads. I'm pretty sure that you all have understood how you can use this AI tool to extract leads and you can certainly  get in touch with them with the best pitch that you have for yourself. Now see you all in the next video. 

Create Your Entire Brand Kit With Looka AI

 Hello everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial. After watching this tutorial, you can make your own logo designs and your brand identity. You can create your own logos, design them, you can customize them accordingly, you can create your own brand kits which are particularly designed for your brand. And for this, I have the AI tool which is LUCA AI.  Okay, so once you have logged into your account, you will find that you need to enter the industry that you are working in. So that if you add your industry, it will understand more about your industry and relevant like output. Okay, so we need to enter the industry. For example, I'm in the industry of fitness. Alright, so I will add that and press on continue.  Alright, so now you can see that we need to pick some logos for inspiration. So this AI tool will understand like how and what relevant logos we need to make. Alright, so I will just select a few. I really like this one.  Okay, so I have selected, like you can select up to five to six, it is up to you. You can also select more than that. Okay, so now I have selected the inspiration for the logos and I will click on continue. Now we need to select the colors. Okay, what colors we want, what, and I will select grayscale. That's it. Then I would move, you can select up to three colors, right? And then I will click on continue.  Now we need to enter our company name. My slogan is fit and healthy. That's it. You can enter your slogan and the company name. I will press continue. And we need to add the symbol types we want in our logo. Fine. So I want a fitness symbol. If you want to add your own symbols, you can click here and you can add more symbols from that option.  Alright, so now I have selected the symbol types. I will press on continue. And now you will see Luka AI tool is generating logos for us. My god, this first logo itself is totally great. Look at that logo designs that Luka AI has generated for us. I really like this first one. It is so like it looks professional and at the same time it looks authentic.  You see there, these are the numerous logo designs that LUCA AI has generated for us. And I will click here to see all the options and also to customize it accordingly. So, I have opened this logo design.  And from here, you will see these are the different options for you to customize your logo more. Like you can add and change the background and these are the modern suggestions for the one which we have selected, okay?  so you can select which one you like so from here if you select this and look at the color design the color picker that it has selected for us the similar selections for your the similar suggestions for your selection from your okay so you can select anything but i really like this one so i will keep that and then if you want to change anything text so you can certainly do that from your  All right, so you can change the size, you can do it uppercase or lowercase, whatever it is. You can change the background, you can change the color palette, you can change the entire layout. These are the different options available here. You can change the slogan, you can add more symbols like this. This logo doesn't have a symbol as of now, but if you want, you can click here and add the symbol.  For example, if I click here and I would search for a relevant one. So you see that is giving us suggestions in the same color palette and not something else. So I really like this one. You see how easily you have created a logo. Now if you want to create your own brand kit, you will press here.  For example, the logo files, the website, social profiles and everything. So entire brand kit, whatever you have chosen, will be added here. So if you want the brand kit, you will need to purchase a subscription.  and this is how you can do that. You can also take inspiration from this same logo design and you can create the same in some another free tool which you want. So, these are the various suggestions that Luka AI has given us. Once you are done with your logo design, you can share from here or you can download from here.  This is how you can create your own logo design and brand kits very easily. You don't need any designer for this. I hope this video has helped you a lot and now see you all in the next video. 

Generate 1000+ Product Images with Flair AI

 Hello everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial. In this AI tutorial, you will see and understand how you can create your own professional looking product photos. So you don't need to hire a professional product photographer, okay? This AI tool will help you to achieve the same results for your products, for your brand. So now let's see how we can do that.  I have this AI tool which is Flare AI and it helps us to create our own AI designs for our brand with our product photography. Now let's start. I will click on Create with Flare.  Okay, so now this is my screen for Flare AI. Okay, so this is the place from where you can start a new project. Now I will click on Create New Project.  As you can see on the screen, these are the sample images that AI has provided. But I will show you how you can do that with the own images that you have clicked. Okay, so I have clicked one picture of a product. I will add this here and we will create professional looking product photos. Okay. So for that, if you want to use the same, you can do it. But like certainly you want to use your own images, right? So you can create, click on upload product photo.  Alright, so now I have uploaded this image that I have clicked. So, this is the first section where we need to remove the background. As you can see, Flare AI has certainly removed the background. Alright. See, now we would go to remove. If you don't want to remove, you can keep it as it is, but I will remove the background.  and we need to describe the product here okay what my product is about like in in words we don't need to add sentences okay so this is a bottle this is a shower gel oh okay so i have described my image then i will go to done okay so now you can see flare ai has suggested us with few images all right  like the templates that you want for your image so you can select anyone that suits okay direct okay so for example if i want to use this image like the template you'll see here okay we will just slide  here and you see our image is generated with a professional looking product photo. Select any template that you want that suits your product okay. Now I see that the product and the background image is not going well so I will select another template. So you can certainly do that thing all right and if you want to remove anything from your like edit your photo  You can do that. And if you want changes, this is your product photo and this is the one that you generated. If you want to make any changes here, I will click on this picture and then you can change like the color, the remove background, magic erase, like if you want to erase something. For example, I want to erase  erase this part so you can remove that and if you generate you will see that that part is removed i mean that is not going to look good for this image but i am showing you all that you can remove that all right so i will just undo that thing  left-hand side panel, then you will find different assets which are the sample images and you can add your own images. Then this is the generate button where you can select and change the template of your background. You should provide more information about your product. Okay, so now these are the elements like any stickers, symbols that you want to enter for  And this is how easily you can create your own product photos which are professional looking. You can add more details about your product and it will generate a background for your product. I hope this video has helped you a lot to understand how you can create your own product photos with Flair AI and you don't need to hire any professional product photographer. Now see you all in the next video. 

Publish Your First Website in Seconds with Framer AI

 Hello everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial and in this tutorial you can and after watching this tutorial you can create your own website and the landing pages without having the need to hire any professional for this and for this we have Framer AI so I have opened Framer AI on my screen so this is the interface and this is the page you can create everything  This is where you can create everything and this is from you can directly get the designs from Figma and the tutorial if you want. Here you can watch all the projects that you have created. Now let's begin. I have clicked here start with AI and now it will open this interface for us to start creating our website and the landing page.  Okay so if you see these are the pages like where you are going to create the different layers for your website design and the assets like whatever things are you you are going to add you don't need any kind of coding you are just going to add the prompt to get your website designed.  You need to insert any of the sections or navigation or the pages that you want. For example, if you want the stop bar, see how easily we have added.  This is the layout section like what layout you want your website, the text and this is the backend database that you need to enter. Alright? So, this is the user interface and you need to click on start with AI and enter the prompt that you want. Okay? Like the website that you want to design. So, I will enter my prompt. This is my prompt and I will click on start.  So now it is generating our page, the prompt that we entered in front of us. You look. You have a look. It is creating the page in front of us like you can see everything how it is creating and then after it's done you can control it. We will give some time for Framer AI to create our website.  The website design is generated and we will have a look how it is. Okay, so from here you can publish your Primer AI website. Okay, we will not publish it as of now. Alright, so this is our design. Have a look, this is our design and from here we can preview the design. Okay, that looks good.  these are the different pages and we will go back. Now, if you want to make any changes, so you can click on any element and then you get this section and change the theme. You can shuffle and change the theme. See, I kind of like  this one okay so you can keep the same that you want then if you want to add different overlays like whatever it is then you can certainly add that. These are the different ways that you can control your Framer AI website from layers you can control it for the tablet like phone and and I want to make that as a clickable link so I will click here and add the link  So I will add the link here and it will be as a clickable link. So this is how you create your website and once everything is designed and everything is perfect the way you want your website to look like then you can click on publish and it will now you will see that it is published for free. Okay and then when you press there you will see that your web your domain is  live and it is optimized. You see how easily we have created our website design, the landing page and everything and how you can customize it and how you can add your own elements in there. Now I hope you all have understood Framer AI and how to use it. See you all in 

Publish Your First Website in Seconds with Framer AI

 Okay, so for creating our AI character, I am into this mid-journey bot. So you need to open your mid-journey bot and I will enter my prompt to create my AI character. You can make few changes in your prompt accordingly, but you can keep the same structure and then create your own AI character. For that, we will apply the animations to create the talking AI character, right?  So, now I am in my mid-journey bot and I will write my prompt here. So, now we have created our character and I will save that in my device. So, now I am going to generate a script for my video. So, I will ask Chadjipati to generate a script for me.  You can see Charjipati has generated a script for me so I will use this script, not directly but I will make few changes in it and I will use this script for my Talking AI Avtaar video. So I have copied this script and I will use this in DID. Alright, so we have opened this and we will click on Create Video. So now I have logged in to my account and I will press on Add. Our character is now added.  What we will do is, you can see here, this is the right-hand section where you need to enter your script. So, I will enter my script that we just generated using Charity Pity. Alright. So, as you can see, this is the language, these are the voices. We will select the voices. This is the style.  Now this is done. We have selected the audio like the voice and the language. Now we will click on generate video. So DID is creating our video. We will just wait for it and let's see how our video is created. So DID has created our video. Now let's see how it is. Welcome to the journey of a better you.  It's not just a workout, it's a commitment to yourself. Oh my God! I... Seriously, I... I mean, yeah, I was expecting a good result, but now that I have created this by myself, I am super stunned by this result. Now, if you want to download this, you can download from here. Okay, so we will click here and download the video. Now that we have created a video, we need captions for the subtitles. Okay, so I will again open with IO.  Okay, so now our video is added. We would do that to this. Alright. And now, I will add the subtitles. Click on Auto Transcribe. Create Subtitles. So, our subtitles are added. Now, I would save my video.  If you have the subscription then this watermark will be removed. And our video is downloaded and this is our final video. I am sure that you all have understood how you can create your own AI talking avatars and I hope that this video has helped you a lot to make, to create your own AI talking avatars which you see on the internet and you can also create on your own. So now see you all in the next video. 

Write Blog Posts 10x Faster with Copy AI

 Hello everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial. In this AI tutorial, we will see how you can create ad copies within seconds. So you just need to enter simple prompt what you want your ad copy to be about and Copy AI tool will create an ad copy for you. You just need to enter what you want and rest all the things will be done by Copy AI. Now let's see how you can do that.  So I have opened Copy AI on my screen and as you can see these are all the different sections and from here you can create a new project and you need to add the prompt here like what you want the ad copy to be about. So I will enter my prompt.  Okay, so now I have written my prompt. If you want your prompt to improve, then click on improve prompt. So if there are any different changes, so it will provide us. As you can see, we just entered one line prompt and when we clicked on improve prompt, it has given us a detailed prompt related to our ad copy. Oh my God!  Look at this, I am seriously stunned that it is going to write us everything. Like we are only going to provide a simple prompt and it is going to write us everything. Now our prompt is ready, I will click on the enter button. It will write an ad copy for us, you see. It is writing a copy for us. It has already written this.  and it is done like within one second our ad copy is done now if you want to make any changes here you can just certainly copy and then add to the editor where this is the part and you can edit it and you see the it has also included the testimonials because we have added that it should be great for the new joiners right so it has also added the testimonials for the new people now we will add it to the editor so i will make the changes here  So see, you can make your changes here. These are the different options like the headlines, bold italics and lines that it is offering us. And we can copy and use this ad copy for our purpose and for a brand. It is also providing us the details like how many words and characters and so 11th to 12th grade people like minimum are required to understand this.  If you go here, then these are the different options. There's a list, the strikethrough, chrome. If there is any formatting you can remove that. You can also add the link here. So easily we can create our brands, add, copy.  And this is how easily you can create your brand's ad copy with copy AI tool and certainly use it because you are only going to provide a simple prompt and copy AI will provide you with a detailed prompt and a response to that detailed prompt. I hope you all have understood this and I'll see you guys in the next video. 

Automate Boring Corporate Briefs with Tome AI

 Hello everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial. And after watching this AI tutorial, you can create your own presentations within minutes. You don't need any manual editing, any manual writing for each and every slide of your presentation. You just need to enter what you want in your presentation, what is your presentation about. This AI tool will create an entire presentation for you.  For this, we have used TomeAI. Okay, now I have opened TomeAI on my screen. You can see this is the interface. From here, you can see all the menus appearing here, the templates here together. If you see here, these are the different templates available and there are various templates available. So, if you click on it, if you add DivaPrompt and you can directly  enter and you can directly create your presentation. Now we will create a presentation from scratch. Okay, so I will click on create. So I have opened this and this is the interface for us to create. Now these are the suggestions for us like what you want and then how you can enter in here. So Tomei is asking us what would you like to do. So what we want, we need to create a presentation, okay, for our brand. So for example,  I will select this. Okay, and I will type here. Create presentation about what then fitness  brand okay i want a presentation about fitness brand this and it is generating an outline for us we will wait like what they are including so they have generated an outline for us which is introduction our story our products our community our impact and conclusion now if you want to add something more in this then we can certainly click on this plus symbol so it is not like you can add only if you can append only at the end of the  options but you can also add in the center. So for each and every section you have this plus symbol you also have this negative symbol like you can delete that. So you can also if you click here you can drag and move through other sections. So now I want to add here the outline of the  presentation like suppose one particular page so in this way you can add and then if you want to go back you will press this and again change the prompt that you have given this is the title you can change the title but i will keep it as it is you can edit and add your own title and once this part is done we will click on continue then dome ai is creating a presentation for us like within seconds  You see, you see, each and every page is generated by Tome AI. We have not provided anything on Tome AI. If you see, we have not included anything like I want this picture or I want these elements, but Tome AI has certainly included pictures for us too. This is the conclusion page and we will go through each and every tab.  This is the first slide that is the name and the title of our presentation. This is the outline of the presentation like what all things will be included. This is what we have entered. And then this is the introduction page and these are all the pages. Okay, so now if you want to edit any page then you will click here. Alright, you will make changes.  our success story so this is how you can do that you can edit the text too and you can change the image too now below here this is the command bar all right so now if i want more page so how will you do it so i will go here and i will type in create page about  Create page about testimonials. Okay, we want a page about testimonials and I will press on enter. Now it is generating us the pages that we can enter.  You see how easy it was to create your presentation from scratch by only giving a command prompt to Dome AI and Dome AI has created an entire presentation for us. We can also control how many pages we want and command prompt. So I hope you all have understood how you can use Dome AI and certainly create number of presentations within minutes. Now see you all in the next video. 

Send 1000+ Emails a Day with Devi AI

 Hello everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial. After watching this tutorial, I guarantee you that you are going to get numbers of leads. For that, we have this tool which is Devi. Okay, so this is the Chrome extension that you need to install and Devi is your AI social media assistant. I have opened this website on my screen.  and you can automatically monitoring outreach and content in scheduling. It does everything for your social media. You can get leads, numbers of leads. So now we will see how you can do that. Alright, so now you need to go to your extensions and search for Devi tool. Alright, so I have searched for it and I will click on get extension.  Okay. It is downloaded. I will make... Okay, see. Devi has been added to my Microsoft Edge. Okay. Successfully installed. Now, let's see. Now, we need to add our details. Okay.  Okay, so now you need to answer few questions so this tool will understand what is your business about and so it can automate the extraction of leads. So now I will enter the details about my business to enter your business name and if you don't have your website yet then you can move on to the next step. Alright.  Now, we need to enter the keywords that we should target, okay? We need to monitor for the leads. Now, Devi has suggested these keywords for us, but if you don't want anything from this, you can just simply like cross, you can just simply click on the cross mark and add your own keyword, okay?  And you can add as much as keywords you want. It's not like you need to add only 5. Once you are done with this, you need to click on next step. And you need to check for the platforms that you want to monitor for the leads. Okay, so I will select LinkedIn.  Okay, so I will select Facebook and LinkedIn. Okay, so I have done that. Now for Facebook, we need to search from which Facebook groups you need to monitor the leads. So, it is fetching information for us from these Facebook groups.  So, currently I don't have any Facebook group. Okay. So, hence it has not extracted the group name. I will just move on to the next step. So, it is all set up but this is the step that you need to follow for your business and then you can set up. Alright. This is how you can do that.  Now, this is the interface that AVAI is providing us and this is like a really important part for you to understand this part, this tab, okay? So, this is the dashboard that we have opened. Now, you can see we have not done anything. We have just selected the groups and what our target audience should be, the keywords and everything.  Still it has scanned three leads for us, okay? Step page, and this account was active for LinkedIn on my device, so it shows that there are 62 leads. Can you believe that? We have not done anything, no manual work. We have just entered what should be our target audience, what should be the keywords that we should monitor, and we have 62 leads in front of us.  Okay, so you will get all the data right here, like how is your monitoring work going on. After that, if you go to Leads and Outreach, you will see that all your leads information will be provided here. Okay, so you need to enter your Facebook group's details here and then these are the keywords that we have targeted. You can add more positive keywords here and then these are the scan settings.  These are the scan settings like how you want the scan to be automated. So it can automatically scan and monitor your leads. There's a very important tab where it shows the brand and the competitors for our particular business.  So after this, if you go to create and schedule tab, you will find this different sections where it is AI content, then AI news, and anything that you have written or something like that. From create new button, you can write your own AI content.  And if you go to these AI News section, you will find everything which is related to AI. And it is really important to understand what are the new industry trends going on in your current industry. So it's a very, very useful thing for you to go through all the AI News.  public but you can also track private Facebook groups and monitor and gain leads. So once there are leads in front of you, you can significantly use those leads and reach out to them on their particular platform with your perfect pitch.  Alright, so here on our dashboard if you go to this 62 leads, we will click here and the words we have targeted, the keywords, it will thoroughly give us the words which account is like using those words and we can browse through here and check which accounts are using this words and certainly we can reach out to them. So for example, this person right here is using our keyword and we are interested to  to work with them. So, we will suddenly click on this, we will engage with them and reach out to them on LinkedIn.  You see how easily we have found all the 62 leads like you don't need to manually go and search for each and every lead but you can certainly search for leads like easily using this AI tool. I hope that you all have understood how you can find leads and how you can grow your business and crack those deals. So now see you all in the next video. 

Create UI designs for beginners - UiZard

 Hello everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial. And this AI tutorial will help you to create UI designs even if you are not an UI UX designer. And this tool which is UiZot will help you with this particular theme.  So now you can certainly screenshot any of the UI design from any website and you can create a mock-up for that. So it's obvious that you are not going to choose the same design, but at the same time you can take the reference and create your own screenshot and use the same design. You can add it here to create the UI design. Let's start with our tutorial.  I have opened UIZ on my screen. So, this is the interface. For here, you need to search for any template that you have. There are a lot of templates here. Okay. There are a lot of templates available for you. Okay. So, now I will click on New Blank Project. On the left-hand side, there are these different options and different templates available for you. And you don't need to manually create each and every template.  You just need to click here, drag and drop here and your template will get added. So you see, this is how easy it is. All of these things you can find here from the template. Okay, so if you scroll down here,  There are various templates available which you only need to select, drag and drop and it's added. So, we have opened our website. If you scroll here, then the one that we dragged and dropped will be added.  So, this is how you do it. Now, if you like any UI design of a website and you want to make a similar kind of thing, what you can do is use that screenshot here, import it and you can add it here and similar design will be created. For example, if you click on screenshot and I have screenshotted this, I would see it.  and I will click on import. You will see that the similar design will get added. You see, you see right here, the similar design is added for our UI design. And once you click here, you can make changes. You see, this is like super easy to create a wireframe and the UI design of your own website from another screenshot.  Now for suppose, you have one design which is hand drawn on a paper. Alright? So now you want the same design to be on your UI design. Let's see how you can do that. So from this section which is wireframe, you will select this and select the UI design that you have made on your paper. So this is the UI design that I have created. Alright? And then you will click on import. It is getting added.  Now you see this is the design that we have added and it will generate a mock-up design for us. You see we have made the similar design on our paper and UIZ has created a similar mock-up design for us. Then you can  click here you can change the image you can change the style and you can click here add your own text like whatever which is relevant to your website and these are the different buttons if you want different buttons you can change them if you want different style you can change that i want this button so i will add that i want this button  So you see that button, that button shape is different. How you can create your own UI design from the screenshots, from the hand-drawn designs and add it to your UI design interface and the design will be created. This is how easy it is to do it. Now we have these different screens where we have added the hand-drawn design, where we have added the screenshot, where we just dragged and dropped here. So these are the different designs available here.  Okay and then these are the different options if you have any UI design created in Figma, Sketch, Adobe XD you can certainly import that from there to this interface and it is the similar way that you have imported your hands-on design. So it works the same and that we created and you can export the design from here.  There are just different file formats and I will export it in the form of PNG and then export. This is how you can create your own UI UX designs for your purpose right from the screenshot, right from the mock-up designs. You can drag and drop. It is like very easy. You don't need any coding for this.  You don't need any programming for this. You just need to drag and drop the templates or the elements and your UI design will be created. You saw, right? Like we created one with hand-drawn sketch and it is so simple. I hope that this video has helped you a lot to understand how you can create your own UIVex design from all of these different options in a very easy manner without programming. And now see you all in the next video. 

Boost your Sheets productivity - SheetPlus

 Hello everyone, this is me Vedika and another AI tutorial where this AI tool will help you to boost your spreadsheets productivity and all of the data because this AI tool will help you boost your productivity with its 10 times faster formulas and you can use it right away. So now let's dive in to use this AI tool. So now I am creating my account.  Now my account is successfully created. Alright, so I have confirmed my account and we have Shade Jeopardy and we have ShadePlus right in front of us. We will explore this tool more. If you see your  If you see in the left corner, these are the tools which ShapePlus is providing us. This is the formula generator, formula explainer, debugger, and any Q&A that you need to ask. Okay, so we will see this formula generator first.  This formula generator says that you don't need mathematical formulas to create and to use your Excel sheets, but you can use your, but you can create your own formulas using the text and this is how you can exactly do that for a second. So you need to enter a detailed prompt what you want that formula to be about, like how it should work. So the program is for, we will use it for Google Sheets. All right. News Fetch Sheet.  Okay, so now you need to enter this more step. For that, you need to go to Files and then select Settings. You will go to Calculation and you will turn this Iterative Calculation on. Okay. And you will save the settings.  Okay, so I have generated this another formula for counting the number of cells from B2 to B7 that contains letter E and this is the formula that it generated. I have copied this formula and I will go to my Google Sheets and this is what our data is currently and I will add this formula right here.  and I will add this formula right here and the value that it provides us is 3. Now, what was our formula? Our formula was to select to count the number of cells from B2 to B7. Okay. This is B2 till B7. Mango to strawberry. We were supposed to count the number of cells which includes letter E. So,  B3 infuse letter E, pineapple infuse letter E and strawberry infuse letter E. So, it has correctly given us the data. It has correctly given us the result 3 that means this 3 cells infuse the letter E and this was just the basic use of sheet plus that you can use to create your own formulas and it is extremely easy that you can use your own formulas and then add it in your sheet.  So, you see how powerful it is to create your own formulas and use it in your sheet to get instant results, which are accurate instant results. So, I hope that you all have understood how you can do that. The next tool which SheetPlus is providing us is  is the formula explainer. For example, there is one formula and you don't understand what is the meaning of that formula and you want to know what that formula means. Then we can enter that formula here and it can generate a explanation for us for that formula. So I  and I will make the spreadsheet program that is Google Sheets and I will add this formula right here. Okay, now it will generate an explanation for us and let's see if that explanation is the same that we provided sheet plus to generate this formula.  Okay, so now we have an explanation for this formula which states that this formula counts the number of cells in the range B2 to B7 that contains the letter E. It will count any cells that have the letter E in them regardless of the other letters or characters that surround it. And this is exactly the same prompt. And this is exactly the same prompt that we provided ChitPlus to generate a formula for us.  I know that you all are stunned to use this shade plus because I am actually stunned and I'm going to use this for my data analytics work and this is going to do wonders for me. So now see you all in the next video. 

Boost your Sheets productivity - SheetPlus

 Hello everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial and in this tutorial you will see how you can create your own dancing AI character and like you are going to create your own character and how you can make that dance like add motion to it and this is exactly what we are going to see in this video.  And for this, we are going to use Plask AI. So here on my screen, I have opened Plask AI, which is for animation. And this section is for different characters, okay, for your different models. So from here, these are the different models for you to select. If you have your own model, you can import it from here. Okay, your own model. So I will be using this model. So I will just click and drag it here.  and it will get imported in a file. See, we have imported our model and if you zoom in, this is how our character looks. So, if you zoom in more, okay, to control this, you will click on control and alt and then drag it here and there to move the perspective and I will now zoom in. So,  If you want to retarget more points here, which points you can see already, so you can do it and you can also move them like this. Okay. In this right-hand side, your right-hand side, this is how you can manually enter the points like to what perspective you want.  to what perspective you want them to change and this is a left-hand term this is a left-hand term okay and in the retargeting you will place like these are the different points on our model  okay so this is how you can control that and from here you can also choose like how that model should appear right now while you are editing so like now we need to add motion to our character okay so to add motion we will import one file where it is normal like some where it is normal normal video of a person who is dancing okay so from here from import we will import the 3d  Sorry, we will import the video file. From here you can import your file. I will click on Browse File. Alright.  Alright, so now as you can see I have imported the video file of a person who is dancing. And you can also adjust the length of the video and you can only keep the part that you want. And I would keep the entire thing because I guess it is not more than one minute. So I am okay with it. So I will keep the entire part. You see these are the options for extract options.  and now if you see these are the extract options so if there is a single person in the video right so I will click on single foot lock will be yes okay and then t-pose will be yes click on extract  For extracting, it is stating that we can use only this credits, the number of credits that are going to be used. So I will click on continue and extract motion to the library tool. Okay, so our motion is extracted from that video file. Now what we will do, we will drag and drop on our character. So now it will get applied to our character that we have created.  Okay, so our animation is added to this character. Now let's see how it has captured the motion. You see, our character is now dancing and it has captured all the dance steps and motions from that video that we have imported.  Oh my god, I seriously seriously like this and you can certainly do that with by creating your own character, do the retargeting, add the animation effect and add the motions and your character will start dancing. 

Boost your Sheets productivity - SheetPlus

 Hello everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial and this AI tool is very interesting because you can create your video from an article link. Like you ever imagine that you have a link to a text article and you can create a video from that link.  But today we are going to see how you can certainly do that and for that we have this AI tool which is Pictori. Pictori helps us to create videos from scripts from an article link and this is what we are exactly going to see in this video. So now let's start with this tutorial. If  Now as you can see I have opened Victoria on my screen and this is the AI option that this tool is providing us. Now I have copied one link to the article and I will go and paste it here.  And when I click on proceed, it will extract the text from that particular link of the article and see, it is extracting the key messages, the important things from that article and it will create a video out of that. We will just wait for it to extract.  Okay, so as you can see this is what our news was like the article was and we have this link copied and here it has extracted the exact thing from that article and using a particular link only.  So, this is the source article and this is what the AI powered summary which this AI tool has given us. So, this acts as a script for our video. So, basically what it has done is it has extracted the text from the source link.  Then it has converted it to the important summary part. Okay, that will act as a script for our video and that script will be converted to the video. Done. We will press on next. If you have any changes, you can do that certainly there. We will select the template from here like which template that we want for our video. So for example, I want this template which is corporate and I want  and I want the aspect ratio to be 16 is to 9. Alright. And it is getting converted to that video. Okay, so now you can see our script from that article link is converted into a video. And the best part here, the extremely best part here is the images that were present on that source, okay, the source link,  are extracted to our video. We don't need to manually add any images, no visuals, nothing, no videos. The images are extracted in our video which are syncing with the text. We will just play and see. If you want, now, you want that subtitles as an audio, right? As a voiceover. So for that, what you will do is  You will go to audio. Okay, you will go to voiceover. You will select any voiceover like any of the audio that you want. I will apply this. Using AI to protect against AI image manipulation. Where technologies powered by artificial intelligence can craft and manipulate images live.  You see how easily it has extracted the text from our article link, from the article blog post link and it has converted that to the summary and that summary got converted to the video. So, these are the steps that this AI tool has done automatically and we have not done anything manually. Now, my video is ready. If you want to  do any of the editing if you want to make any changes. You can certainly do that with all of these options available to you and these are very similar to the vid.io tools that I have explained to you all. I would request you all to watch that video too. So now my video is ready and I would click on download and save the video.  I am very sure that you all have understood how you can certainly use any link and then convert that link text source to your video and your video will get ready. No manual editing. It is only AI powered editing. Now see you all in the next video. 

Boost your Youtube video performance with Creator ML

 Hi everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial. This AI tool is extremely useful for YouTube creators because it is specially meant for them. By using this AI tool, you are going to get like numbers of views and it will help us to understand and like increase the performance of your videos which is basically what all the YouTubers look for, right? So this is the right tool that you can use for yourself.  Okay, so now I have opened Creator ML which is useful for the YouTube creators. So once you open that you will see this screen on your screen. Alright, so from that you can import your thumbnails here and then you can add your  video titles and it will help us generate and predict everything okay so first and that will make us understand how it ranks so you can make certain changes in your thumbnail and see how your video will rank because  Because the most important thing for a YouTube video is its thumbnail and its title. So this is the most important thing. And that is what people click on to watch your videos. Okay. So content is also important but content comes after these two things. So now let's see how you can do that. I will add the thumbnail here.  Okay, so now you can see I have added my YouTube thumbnail here. I will add the video title. Okay, so I will enter all the details and you also enter all the details which are related to your YouTube video.  Alright, so now I have entered the details about my video and you can see we have entered the title. If you click here, it will generate us different titles. Okay, you see it has generated title for us. So, from here we can select any of the titles that we want. So, how easily it has generated titles for us like the suggestions. So, you can select the suggestions and then I will click on rank combinations.  So, it will help us to understand how our video will perform. Okay, we just need to enter the category. Okay, so now it has the prediction for us. We will move down and it will show that how our video will perform along with the combination of different thumbnails and the different titles.  So, you see it is giving us different predicted views. So, it gives all the analytics for your YouTube video and the YouTube title. So, this is how particularly you can use that. Okay. So, you can get the idea from this title suggestions how you can use that in  Okay, so this is how easily you can generate your YouTube titles and also get the predicted views and insights for your YouTube video like even before uploading the video which is like really really useful so that you can tweak and make changes in your YouTube thumbnails and the YouTube titles.  This AI tool is extremely useful for YouTubers and certainly you can edit all your YouTube settings and you can use all the suggestions in your YouTube settings and your video will be in full bloom. Now see you all in the next video. 

Boost your productivity by seamlessly editing your Videos with cohesive

 Hello everyone this is me Vedika and I'm back with another AI tutorial. In this AI tutorial we will see how you can create very easily the content for your social media and like any platforms and you will say just goodbye to your like boring content.  For this we are going to use Cohesive AI and Cohesive AI will help us with the text and the voice feature. So you can explore it from here like there are different voices and you just need to paste the text here and it will create voices for you which you can download okay. So I will add my text here.  I have added my text here and from here you will select the language. For example, I want the Hindi language. And then we will select the speaker. I have selected Aditi and I will say go. Okay, so now it is loaded and we will play.  You see how easily like we have entered our text in English and it has converted the audio in the Hindi language that we selected. Okay, so now we will change the speaker. For example, I am selecting Akriti. The voice will be different. Namaste.  It is so stunning that you can create and generate your audio like in different voices and then select the tone. You can also change, okay I will just shift myself up. You can add more text, you can change the tone and you can change the speaker and once everything is done you will click on export and save it and use that in your like projects.  This was how you can use cohesive for like generating your audio like the voice feature. Now we will go back to the text feature.  Okay so now in this text feature you just need to enter what you want to create and then it will help us to create that content like very easily. I want to create a skincare video. This is what I want to create and I will press on go. Now it will suggest us and write us contact. Okay so you see how easily it has generated a script for us and then it projects. So this is how you can convert your script like generate it easily and then convert it to audio.  So this is how easily you can do that. So once you go below here, you can find different templates like you can like easily create a YouTube script and you just need to enter the prompt like what you want the script to be about. A full block generator and this is how easily you can create your content with Cohesive and I really like this. I really like the voice feature Cohesive is offering us and I hope that you all have understood how you can create that and I'll see you all in the next video. 

Remove watermark from your Images and Videos with Media io

 Hi everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial. This video is a most requested one because many of you all have this question like how we can remove the watermark from our images or videos. So this AI tool is certainly helpful for you all to achieve that. Okay, so now we will see how we can do that. For this purpose, we are going to use Mediaio, this AI tool.  So I have opened MediaIO on my screen. Alright, so this is the interface. It offers like various options. So now we will go in this video section. You can also AI face swap the video. Like you can make your video cartoon. Okay. So this is particularly how you can do that.  Okay, we will scroll down and these are the different options that MediaIO is providing us. Alright, so now for example, I want to remove the watermark from a video. I will click here and I will upload the video. Okay, so I am uploading the video. Okay, I will click here.  Okay, so now our video is loaded. You can see this is the watermark that our video is having and we need to remove that. Alright, alright. So I will select a brush size. Okay, you can adjust it accordingly. And I will move here and I will select our watermark. I have selected that and then I will click on remove objects now. Welcome to the journey of a better you.  You see the watermark from our video is removed and this is how easily you can remove all the watermark from your videos and images. So once that is done you can download from here and this is how you use MediaIO for this purpose. Now see you all in the next video. 

All in one Video editing software descript
 Hello everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial in Descript AI which is a very good video and podcast editing AI tool. So now we will see how you can certainly edit your videos with Descript AI. Many many features are offered by Descript AI. Let's see them one by one.  So for that you need to log in and once you are logged in to your account then you then you need to install Descript. Okay so now finally your software the AI software is now ready like installed. Okay so now finally Descript is open and then we will  we have we have selected everything each and every detail and for that afterwards what we need to do is we need to create we need to click on new project once a new project is done it is getting loaded we will see what we have next  Okay, so now our video is getting added. From this, we will select like how many speakers are there. There is only one speaker in this video. Then, we will also add the speaker name. Okay. From here, we will add the speaker name. Language is English and we will click on Done. Alright, and then we will click on Done. Now, you can see the transcription of our video is added right here and our video will get loaded here.  Okay, so now once our transcription is added, we can click here and from here once you see that the video is playing, the highlighting part of the script will also go along with that. For example, we will click here.  Okay, you see that? So, like once your video is playing, then your audio script, like the transcription is also showing like which part the video is playing.  Okay, so one important thing that you can do with Descript AI is if you want any particular line from the video to remove. So you will not manually edit that video but you will only remove that line and that line will be removed from the video. That video will get edited automatically. You don't need to edit that video. So for example, I will remove this line which is you  can design and this entire line I want to remove so I will click and remove that okay that line is removed you can see this is the like symbol which showcases that that part is removed and we will start our video from here and see that particularly that part from our video is removed  This website is a goldmine for content creators and it's called Zeta. You can create professional animated content in seconds. You can add animation presence directly from your figure. You see, we have removed that part from our video without actually manually editing our video. We have just removed that line from our transcription and that video got and the video got edited automatically.  So you can do this with all the text that you have. You can correct that text and that once you correct that text that will be replicated in your video and your video will get edited. So this is how you can do with using Descript AI.  part where if you want to delete something from the video then you can remove that but sometimes it like happens that you are not sure whether you want to delete something from the video or not so what you will do is you will select that particular part which you are not sure and you will use it later on you will select that part  and you will click on this symbol which is ignored. Okay. So while playing the video that part will be ignored but it will not be removed. Okay, it will stay in that script. You can also go back again through that script and then it will appear again. Okay, if you want. So you will not delete that. So we have ignored that part and this is basically how you can do that. You select using the script AI. For example, if you want to overdub that you will click on overdub. Okay.  then you will assign the voice that is this voice and then we will click on done and now  So, you can overdub that and then that audio will be added here. So, this is how easily you can do editing for your videos using the script AI. You just need to edit the text file that is the transcription of your video and automatically your video will get edited. Now, if you come to this section which is  all the elements and the effects that are added in the video you can actually click create and add different animations like zoom and pan and this and you can also like do as a green screen okay  okay so now we have started the green screen option and if there is any part which is a green screen in your video and you want to replace that then you can do that in your video so this is how easily you can do that you can choose this AI tool to edit your videos  You see how easily you can do that, right? So I hope this video has helped you a lot that how you can use the script AI for your content creation of like your videos and also the audios. Because many of you all have this question like how you can edit your videos very easily, like very easily. So I hope this video has helped you a lot. Now see you all in the next video. 

Create Videos with Animated AI avatars  Deep Brain
 Hi everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial. In this AI tutorial, we will see how you can create videos with using an AI app. You can generate easily just by providing text which are photorealistic AI of that you can use them for your like in your video.  So now let's see how you can do that. Many of you all want to know how you can create AI videos like deep brain AI. This is certainly helpful for you all. So now let's see how you can do that. I will click on create AI video. Okay, then you will see this  interface, you will see this interface and what you can do is you need to enter the topic. For example, you want to create a video about content creation, something related to that and then you need to enter the topic. For example, I want for skincare, like 5 skincare  tips all right so i have added the topic then we will select the template from here okay so i want the template and the ai avatar  To beat this, I have selected the template. I will click on create the video. And we are certainly doing that using ChatGPT because ChatGPT is enabled and integrated in DeepBrain IO itself. Okay, automatically. So we don't need to enter. So we don't need to enter much details. We just only need to enter the topic. ChatGPT will help DeepBrain IO for all the details related to a topic and that will create a video.  Now let's see how our video is.  All right, so you can see our video is now ready. If you want to do any of the editing, like changing the AI avatar, changing the topic, or like any editing you want to customize it accordingly, you can certainly do that in this, like in this webpage. Okay, so you can see these are the different slides and the different scenes, like scene 1 and 2. You can also click here and change the AI avatar. You can, okay, it is showing the details.  So this is the AI character that we have selected. OK, so if you want to change it, you can change that. Then this is the audio that we have for our video. That is, let's see. And for you, a synthesis model is used in DeepBrain IO. Now let's see how it works. Taking care of your skin is important for maintaining its health and appearance.  Follow these tips for best results. You see this was our audio that we have for this video and this is the AI character that we have. We can also change the different  different voices, the speed and the different sections that we have here. You see we have added all the details. We have not added anything manually. Chagipati has helped DeepBrain IO to add all the details.  From here you can choose your AI character, okay? You can choose that from this, you can add the text and this is how easily you can create your videos just by providing the topic and the template that you want, okay? Once everything is done as we saw how it is working, once everything is done you need to click on export and your video will be saved.  This is how easily you can create AI videos using dbrain.io. Like you just need to enter the topic, select the template and dbrain.io along with Charjupati will create a professional looking video for you. So now see you all in the next video. 

Create Ads for your Business even if you are a Beginner with Adcreatives

 Hello everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial. In this AI tutorial, we will see how you can create your ad creatives for your business and for your brand. And like for your total social media handles, you can create this different ad creatives and also you don't need someone like very professional to create this. A total beginner can also create the same. So now let's start.  As you can see on my screen, I have opened this AI tool which is Ad Creative AI. And using this tool, we are going to create our ad creatives for different social media handles. So for that, I will click on create a band to enter the website like what is the landing page of our website. Okay, so for suppose I am entering this, I will enter the details.  okay so our scanning is done and you can see the brand name is automatically added here then we will see the brand logo if you have so now if you have your own brand logo you can enter here like obviously you're going to have a brand logo you will enter the brand logo you will select the color like what is your brand color theme about and automatically after scanning your website the brand description will be added here just like how you can see here  okay it has got added it has been added and then these are the alternative or like the advanced setup all right so i will fill in all the details and i will be back  So now I have entered my logo and once you enter that logo, you can also remove the background of that logo or you can keep the entire thing. So I have kept the entire thing. Okay, I don't want to remove any background. Okay, so now you can see it has also automatically like extracted the colors of a brand. So we don't need to specify them one by one. That is done. I will click on create brand.  Okay, so now our brand is created. Now we will see how we can create different social media ad creatives. Okay, so for that you will  See, for example, you want to create it for a story of the social media. And then these are the different, you know, sizes. So I've selected that. And then the display size, I want that to be half page. I have selected that, the description, and this is our target audience.  So that will be business, like all the details, like the headline, the punchline, what call to action you want. And then that will be previewed here on the right-hand side. So I will add all the details. If you click on Text AI, it will help us to generate automatically. So it will get generated automatically depending on our brand and all the details that  and Creative AI has extracted from our website. So now you see it has automatically extracted all the details and what should be the headline and  and all. So now the call to action icon we will select from here and once that is done you can see this is previewed right here. If you want to make any changes you can certainly make that from here. Now I will click on save and continue and if you want any background image you can add it from here if you have that.  Now we need to enter the project name. Now we need to save and generate our ad creatives for the story. So you see how easily we have created this ad creative without any professional help and a beginner can create an ad creative too. So now once your ad creative is ready you can use that to run your ads on  any of the social media because there are different kinds of ratios available. So you can certainly do that. I hope that this video has helped you a lot to understand how you can create your ad creatives without any professional help only by using Ad Creative AI app. Now see you all in the next video. 

Create 100 personalized Business videos from only one Video Bhuman

 Hello everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial. In this AI tutorial, we will see how we can create one video and that one video will be personalized to different like recipients to whom we are sending. Okay, so this is like very useful AI tool for creating videos for business purpose. So now let's see how you can do that. Okay, so that is done and I  work for myself. For example, you are a freelancer. Then I will go and this is it. Let's test our AI. Okay, so this is how it works and now you need to enter all the details about yourself. You need to enter and answer all your questions, all the questions that the human is asking.  website or this is what the interface looks like so you can create thousands of AI personalized videos like from one single video using the AI studio and you can also clone yourself and then you can create different chatbots okay so I will do it and now we will go to start  okay so now we have the template for example all right so now we will enter and press next now we need to enter three variables for example enter the names for example that will be Vedika, that name is Vedika, next  then our next name is Alex so we need to enter the name of the people for whom we are personalizing the video and then we will only create one video but then that video will be converted into another videos using these different names okay so now this is done now our video will be created and the entire campaign will be created okay so for example our this is these are our different  videos that we created. These are for Vedika and then they will create for another different name. So from here you can like download the video, you can share it with the mailshame. So this is how easily you can like create thousands of videos by only providing the name that you want. Okay. So this is how you can do that. And these are the different campaigns. All the campaigns will be appearing here.  Okay, you see we have created for Anna, we have created for Vithika and then easily we have created like  three videos now for now and we have created three videos only by providing the names of the people and there was only one personalized video that we created. We customized it accordingly and just enter the name and it has created these different videos for us. This is how easy it is for you to create thousands of videos by only recording once. You need to enter a name and  it's super productive for your business. I hope you all have understood how you can use Be Human AI and I'll see you all in the next video. 

Create AI generated voices in multiple languages with Murf AI

 Hello everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial and we are going to use Murk AI for this AI tutorial. It's a 2-speed AI tool which like have a very very versatile AI voices. My voices doesn't sound like AI because they sound like human, real human voices. You can create studio quality AI voices and we will see how you can do that. For that, I will click on Open Studio.  the window so from here you can create your new stunning voice over and you will like name it you can add the folder name and this is the video this is the audio section this is the videos this is the video section all right i want to create a presentation now i will click on create presentation and i will click on create project so that is done your new project is opened  For example, this is my text. Alright, from here you can change your, what we say, your AI character. Okay, there are different voices. So I will select this. Alright, so it is now selected. You can change the tone how you want it, conversational or narration. And once you have selected the page, the speed, I will click on play.  Hello, this is me, Venika. Okay, so it has created an audio for us. Once your audio is ready for your text, you can go and export from here. So, you can also import the script that you have, okay? So, you can directly press on import script and import it and rest all the things will be same. You can add the media, for example, if you want it for the stop music, alright? So, for example,  you are creating it for the audio. So you can add the stock music and it also has this feature which is voice changer. So you can click on voice changer and then select file. Now our AI voice has changed. We will see how it sounds. Do you feel AI has stolen your spotlight?  okay so in the video the voice was different and now we have changed that voice but like rest everything is same so you can change or also the other ai voices that are available from here and then you can manage how you want that so now you see how easily you can work with your ai voices like the video change the ai voices right so this is how you can do that with mark ai now see you all in the next video 

Create AI forms with all the controls  Feathery Io

 Hi everyone this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial which is going to be like really productive and you will it will help you a lot to share the forms with other people very easily and you can also integrate this with other like apps or the softwares. So for this we are going to use Feathery AI okay so that is a powerful form builder and you can like share with other people with you can add  actually see the difference after using this and after this practical video that we are going through and this is this is going to be like really useful for all the team building. Okay. So now I will click on get started.  So once that is loaded, you will see this screen. I have already tried to create like few forms, but now I will show you how you can do that. So for that, I will click on create form. You templates like which, what type of form you want, then you can directly add it from there or you want a totally blank form, then you can select this. Then these are like different sections from here, like the templates.  For example, I want a registration form. So, I will click on registration. Okay. And then these are the different options like what type of registration it is. So, it is for business contact. So, I will create here. Already they have the template. So, you can go through here and this is easily done. But we will create a form from scratch. So, I will click on create form.  blank form. Now you need to add the name of your form. Like for example, I want that for my content theme, kind of theme you want. So I will click on create. Alright, so now it is generating. So you need to add different fields in the form, like different sections that you want, say, and these are the different elements that you want to enter in your form. So you are manually  making it happen how you want your form to look like. Okay? So you can change the aspect ratio from here. This is the flow editor. So you can actually change the different connections that you have. Then I will step.  If you want another step, these are like the steps like what all questions you want to ask to people. So, you will just enter all the questions and then they will answer it. So, these are the different questions. Okay, then this is the next. So, they will click on next. This is how you are designing your form. Okay. So, this is how you are designing your form. If you go back to the logic,  okay so it will be like there will be you can control everything so this is different from google forms because you can control everything here like how you want that form to look what many questions you want and how are you going to integrate and how you're going to test it with other people so these are the integrations and you can integrate it with different  platforms that it is offering. These are the results like who have answered your form. So all your results will appear here. Okay. So for example, we have created this form and like you have created your form, you have entered all the questions that you want your form to ask, then you will click on publish. All right. And then we will copy the link for that published form. Okay. And we will test.  Okay, so now you see how easily you can create your form. You can manage everything manually and this AI will help you to create your forms. You can edit all the designing, the logic, the integration of this form and it will help you to collect data easily and store it and your form will be live. So I hope you all have understood how you can use Feathery IO. Now see you all in the next video. 

Best Meeting assistant for your meetings with transcription, important highlights

 Hello everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial. And after watching this tutorial, your online meetings will be like truly truly productive and optimized. It applies AI and it acts as a note taker for your meetings. You can transcribe your meetings once a meeting is already done. You can go back to the meeting recordings  view the transcriptions, you can go to the highlighted or like the important parts of the meeting, take down notes and it is super super helpful for like transcription purpose. So let's see how you can optimize and be productive with your online meetings using Firefly's AI. So this is your interface and then you will see how you can track this.  Okay, so this is all your interface, like the playlist, what you have saved about your meetings, the meeting status, because you will, like, you will integrate this with other meeting apps, right, like Google Meeting, then you can schedule it from your, for example, you will click and you can schedule from your Google Calendar. So, it will automate your meeting work, alright.  Chrome extension that what Firefly AI is offering you, then transcribe the audio or the video from the AI meeting that you have recorded. Okay, so like you can, you can enter the MP3, MP4, anything. And if you if you have any live meeting going on, you can capture that. So once you click here,  You will name the meeting for your Google Meet, Zoom, MS Teams meeting link here and then you will enter the language. I will create a meeting for later and then I will use this link. I will add it here and then I will click on invite fireflies.  Firefly's assistant has been invited. So, this Firefly's assistant... So, this Firefly's assistant has been invited to our meeting. The link which we have provided. Now, we will open that meeting. Okay. So, we have opened our meeting and I will join now. Alright. I have joined it here and our Firefly's was invited. Fine.  Okay, so we will just need to wait for at least 3 minutes here so that it will provide us with the transcription. Alright. Okay, you now see we have received this notification that our Firefly's assistant wants to join this call. So we will just accept that. Alright, we have admitted that.  You see our Firefly's AI assistant has joined the call and that will provide us with all the notes and all the transcription that we have for this meeting and we will just stay back here to like record and get more insights. Okay.  Okay so now it's been a long time that we are here in this meeting and I feel that Firefly's AI might have taken all the transcription and everything that we need. Then I will just like close our meeting. If you have anything scheduled meetings then you will also get the notification here. So you see how easy it was.  Okay so this is how you can go and record your meeting and all your transcriptions will be available right here as we saw now and you need to wait for like at least three minutes in there for the Firefly's AI to start taking all the transcription and meeting notes. So I hope you all have understood how you can do that, how you can record your meetings and it will be available here with all your required things for the particular meeting. See you all in the 

AI Video editing software from text prompts with AI avatars

 Okay, so hello everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial. So, many of you all are having this question like how you can create a video? Is there any AI video editing tool or is there any AI tool by using that we can create a video? So, this video is an answer for all your questions related to this question.  That is Synthesia IO. Okay, so we are going to use the Synthesia AI tool and this will certainly help you to create professional looking videos only from text prompts. So, now let's see how you can do that. For that, I will click on create a video. Alright.  after that these are the few questions that you need to answer like you need to only provide the text what you want your video like how and what is your video about and that will generate a video for you so create a free hair video like this is just because i'm telling you all how i can do that okay so i need to create a how-to video okay so how to video is the template of my video now we will add the script  what our script is and the best thing is you can add the script in any language. It is not only supposed to be English, you can add it in Hindi, you can add it in Marathi or like whatever language you prefer, you can add that language script here and then you will press on continue. Once that is done, you will receive this video through your email. So you need to add your details here. It is not like you will get the video here and then you will download it but  But you have added whatever you want your video to be about and now you will get that video through your email id. Okay, so we will add our details here. Okay, so I have entered all the details. Okay, what I want. Now, I will click on generate the video and it will send the video on my email id. Okay, so I will show you all once that video is generated. Disha is generating our video and then we will check our video.  in our email id. See you all in a while. See we have now received this mail from Synthesia that our video is ready. Let's see how it is. So we have created the how-to video and we have also entered the details like how we want the video to be about. This is our video that Synthesia has created like within minutes and we have not done any editing. Let's see how it is.  Hi Anna, here is a quick tip on how to open the shortcut menu to emojis on your Mac keyboard. Just press CTRL plus command. You see how easily it has created a video for us. We have not done any editing, nothing, like no editing. We have not added any music, we have not added any like stickers, no script, only provided what we want.  in that video and Synthesia has created a video. So this is how easily you can create your video with Synthesia. Like you just provide what you want and your video will be ready. I hope you all have understood how you can use Synthesia for like creating a professional videos without any editing. Now see you all in the next video. 

Write content for all platforms with templates ready

 Hello everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial. In this AI tutorial, you can be your own script writer. Like AI tutorial, you can be your own script writer and you don't need anyone to write scripts or like any blog post or writing any content.  for your business. Alright, so for this we have this AI tool which is WriteSonic and you can use this AI tool for all your writing purposes. Now let's see like how you can do that. There are various features WriteSonic has for you that you can use and be productive in your writing purposes. Okay, so now let's see how you can do that. I've opened WriteSonic on my screen. These are the different options that WriteSonic offers and  and WriteSonic AI Writer 5.0 is the recent one, so you can use that. So, for this we have different templates for writing the content. So, for example, you want to write  content for social media, then that has a different template because we write that in different ways. Each and every platform has its own way of writing content, right? So, if you have no idea, you can directly come here, use the template and write your content. So, for example, you want to write an article and blog, so I will click here, all right, and then these are the different options of that.  RightSonic is providing at the moment so you can use it.  For example, the very very important thing for any content writing is the hook or the title of that content, right? So for example, we will use this which is also providing us the catchy blog titles. Okay, so we will click on AI blog titles and then we need to like name it, what is the blog idea about and it will generate a title for us. Okay, so I will enter all the details. I will just move myself here and I will enter.  Okay, so now I have entered my details like what is the idea of my blog post or an article. So accordingly it will generate me title. So I will click on generate. Okay, so as you can see it has generated titles for us. So you can copy and directly use it or you can like mix match all of the three and use them in your work.  So, this is how easily you can generate titles for your blog post or any article or even you can generate it for your YouTube video like the title for your YouTube video. So, it just depends on like what platform you are writing, you just need to enter the idea and the content like the title and it will generate like different blog titles for you. So, this is how easy it is.  Once that is done, there are different options which you can explore. The very important thing is writing a content for social media which is like currently very much important, right? So, if you go to the social media section, you will find these different options. You can write Twitter threads, you can plan your entire social media content right here. These are the LinkedIn posts that you can write, you can come up with different Instagram captions.  The Twitter tweets, like the YouTube description, YouTube intros, like very, it is like entire thing that you can use for your content creation. So, for example, I will go to this content plan thing because rest of the things are like you need to enter the detail, what you want and then you will generate it, which is similar to the one which we saw for article and blogs.  We will go to this section which is social media content plan and see how you can create your content plan for your entire social media. So now you need to enter the details. These are the details you need to add the objective like why you are creating that content plan, the platform, which platform you are creating. These are the four different platforms that right. Okay, so I will enter all the details.  So now I have entered the details and I will click on generate. So it will generate a content plan for our objective. Now let's see what all things we get in here. Now if you see we have provided the objective of our content plan and RightSonic has developed a content plan for us which is like three different outputs. So you can choose different outputs  and mix match them or like use any single output that is perfect for you. So you can see the objective, you can see the target audience, you can see the brand voice, how it should be and everything. Entire content plan is created for you. The video creation, the call to action, how you can promote it. So like each and every idea you will get from here. You don't need an entire team for content creation but you can be  all in one like you can be everything in one person. So this is how easily you can use WriteSonic. You can use different sections that you can use different features that WriteSonic is offering you and I really like the content plan feature because it helps us to be organized with our content creation. I hope you all have understood how you can use WriteSonic and I'll see you all in the next video. 

Create voice cloning for your own voice with Lovo AI

 Hello everyone, this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial and in this AI tutorial we will see how you logo AI for generating AI voices and it has like various various numbers of AI voices which sounds realistic like human voices.  and for text-to-speech purpose, okay? So now you all have asked many questions related to AI, like voice generator or converter, so this tool is really, really helpful for you all. So now let's see how we can do that.  I have opened Lobo AI on my screen and from here I will go to New Project. You can also edit multiple voices from a video or you can do only audio content. Okay, so for that I will use the voiceover and click on Create. Once that is done, it is getting ready.  Okay, so now as you can see, you can create your own clone voices like AI Generator. I will click on Next and click on Start. Now what you need to do is you need to add your script here, that is the AI Voice Generator, right? So you need to add your script here. So I will just add a few sentences.  Now, you can also add different characters in here. For example, if you see, one character is Kyle, another character is Tim. So you can add different characters if there are multiple characters. Alright, so now I have added this script. What we will do is,  Okay, so the very very important part in this AI tool is that you can add multiple characters so that you can control different languages for different multiple characters and like different settings for each character. It's not only one person or one AI voice but it will be many characters involved in the conversation for text to speech. Alright, so now I have entered all of these characters and now we will click on generate like play.  Hi there, welcome to Jenny. With Jenny, you can... This is how different characters can play. You can adjust these different characters like accordingly, however you want and it's super easy. So once you have understood these different characters, how you can do it, from here you can save and then export and you can import it in any of your video.  Alright, so this is how you can use this Lobo AI tool for generating different voices for different multiple characters. You can also use this for subtitles purpose. The main use case of this AI tool is for the multiple AI voices generation.  act like all together so these are the subtitles and then you have you have the AI artist the the speaker like you can also clone your voice this is one of the other important  use case of this AI tool like if you click on create voice clone then you need to enter your own audio okay so once you enter your own audio for like few minutes then it will understand how your audio sounds and then it will clone and you can use that audio for other purposes by writing your own script okay or you can also record your own audio so we will go to record my own audio  and we will allow. In a universe of endless laughter, kittens play the piano and clouds rain confetti. In the land... Okay, so now the Lobo AI tool has understood our voice. Click on create a voice.  and just wait for it to create a voice. We can use the same voice just like the other AI voices which are available here and our voice will be used for any other text. You see how important, like important feature LoboAI is offering us. So our AI voice is ready. From here we can preview our voice. Let's see.  Life is like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're going to get. Okay, so this was the preview of our AI voice. It will kind of make a similar AI voice. It will be not the exact voice that you have, but it will make similar voice. But I feel, yeah, that is the most similar AI voice that Logo AI can create for me. Now we can use this.  voice. We will save that with our name. Alright, I will agree to all and add a voice. So now if you write any text, this voice will be added to the text. Alright, so we have used this Vedika and now I will go back. I will change this speaker  I will change the speaker from voice cloning and I will use my voice. You see how easily you can clone your voice and that will be created as an AI voice and you can use that for all your purposes and you see how easy it was to use Lobo AI for this purpose. I hope you all have understood like how you can use Lobo AI and I'll see you all in the next video. 

Best Text to speech with Realistic human AI voices

 Hello everyone this is me Vedika and I am back with another AI tutorial and in this AI tutorial we will see how you can use Speechify AI to translate your text to audio. So you can enter any of your documents or you can also visit any website and when Speechify AI is enabled that will be converted into text to audio. So now let's see how you can do that.  So now as you can see on my screen, I have opened Speechify AI. You can download the extension. Alright. So after downloading the extension and once it is enabled, it will appear here.  okay so now i will go to this new button okay and then from here you can do this things like you can insert your local documents you can use any web link like it will then read that web link whatever content is on that web then you can add the text documents anything that is there in your google drive in your drop box and you can also scan the documents through the webcam  Alright, so now we will see how you can enter your documents and that will be read. So now I will click on my device, like from anywhere where your document is. Okay, for example, I am using my document. Now we just need to wait because as you can see, it is processing. So now our document is added. Let's see.  Queue business model. Queue business model. Answer. Queue property type. Answer. Queue primary platform to promote link. Answer. Queue. What type of customers would you like to introduce any AI tool to? Okay. So, for example, this was my document. You can enter any of your document and that will be read by this AI tool, which will get converted from text to audio. You see how easily we have done that.  Because sometimes we can't go through the text and we need to listen while doing any other work or we can use that for any other purpose. So this is how you can use Speechify AI to do that.  Now if you see, you can change the voice from here. For example, I will click here and this is the person. We will go to all and you can see numbers of voices which are realistic AI voices. If you click on more, you will see the different options like you can change the mode like from light to dark.  you want while reading you want to highlight the text you can enable this or you can disable that it will auto scroll because yeah obviously and these are the different sections available in the settings you see now that we have enabled our chrome extension for speechify like any of your browser extension i will click on speechify the double click okay so it  Then I will copy this web link, go back to the speechify dashboard and then click on web link and enter the web link that we want to listen. Alright. And then click on submit. It will load that web link and it will listen to it. We can listen to that audio. So everything now from that web link is extracted here so we can listen to it.  Bing is your AI-powered copilot for the web. 35,900 results. Anytime.  So you see how easy it was to use Speechify AI to translate text to audio. Like you can enter any web link or any document that you have and it will convert to the audio. You can listen it all over. So I hope you all have understood how you can use Speechify AI and how useful it is for your betterment and for your productivity. Now see you all in the next video.  Dear dear dear 

10Web - How to create a website with AI complete guide

 Hey there everyone, welcome to yet another video with Pradam Vitya. So today we will see how to create a website from scratch in just less than 10 minutes. Because as you know, as of today, everything needs to be online. If you don't have a website, you don't have a business, right? So especially for businesses like digital marketing or other service-based businesses, you need a website that like showcases your work, what you do, what you don't do, because people nowadays,  choose to visit websites more than talking over call. So if you don't have a website, you're practically invisible to almost most of the world. So this tool that we are going to talk about today, it helps you do exactly that. So this tool's name is Tenra Bio. So what this tool basically is, it's an elemental-based, AI-powered website builder.  So if someone knows web development, they'll know Elementor is a very famous editor that most of the people use nowadays to edit WordPress websites because it's so easy and so user-friendly that you can learn this within one hour or two. That's why. And using this AI power tool, you get the  the starting point of the website done for you. So it's even easier for you. You just have to change a couple of images, change some headlines and everything and everything comes into place at once. So let me show you what other features this website provides. So let's just first look at the pricing. As you can see, the first one is $10 per month. And if you want AI features, then it's 15 and then ultimately 23.  And these are animal prices. These are this much. And as you can see, the features are there. Elementary assets are in both of those. Just the difference is the amount of words. So this is basically means the length of your prompt. So like in chat GPT, there is a limitation. If you use the API that this much word costs this much money. Similarly, here it is like they're like that because I think they are in the background using chat GPT only to generate all the text in the background.  So and both of them can connect to custom domains and as expected 99% of them. These are basically their server features. So monthly visitors are 10k. If you go with the more premium one 50k.  So you can look over them. There are not much differences in both of them, just that this is made for smaller websites, maybe your agency or your personal brand. These are made for websites which are having a lot of visitors. For example, you are planning on creating a blog or something.  where you are expecting at least 10, 20, 50,000 visitors every month, then I would say go with this plan. And if these seem expensive to you, then at the end of the video, I'll show you an alternative also, which is even cheaper. And it is a bit less in functionality wise, but still gets the job done. And obviously, instead of just starting a website, you can create e-commerce websites or agency websites where you have to create websites for your clients as well.  So that's the feature part. Let's get into the building. So this is my dashboard. I have already created an account. It's very simple. The first time you want to create a website, just click on here, generate a website. And as you see, I am redirected to my dashboard, but usually you won't see this. You get into the website creation process. I'll show you if I click on generate with AI here. And this is what you'll see once you click generate with AI on the homepage.  So you get two options, an informational website or an online store. So I have done the WordPress installation for an informational website. You want, you can do online store as well. If they ask you this question at the first. So then you can click on next. Then what is your business type? So I'm planning on making a digital marketing agency website for the sake of this tutorial. So let's just choose that.  As you can see, we have our option. Here is the company name and company description. You don't have to come up with all these details yourself. You can use the help of ChatGPT as I did. So you can go to ChatGPT and write a prompt like this. Write a prompt for an AI-generated website about digital marketing agencies.  Our target customers are mid to small sized e-commerce businesses in e-commerce and make sure to make it concise and detailed and the word limits is 200. So basically there is a limit to how much you can enter here. So that's why specify that the limit is 200. It is a bit more than that only. I'll crop it up. So it's put out a good.  prompt just by that much text. So you just have to explain what a business is about, who is the customer like, and then it will give you a very good prompt. So let's just copy paste it. And this will be enough. Because after that, it will just say it's not, it's too lengthy.  For the name also, you can just use chat. You can ask for some names. It gave me some names, but they are not so good, so I asked them again. And I really like this one, Pixel Favorite, so let's just use that for our website. Once these two are done, you can just click on Next, and then you will have to assign three features that will showcase Azure USB. So they will pick it up from your description,  Otherwise, you can specify them also. I think they have done a pretty good job at website design, strategizing campaigns, and online visibility boosting. So let's just go with this. You can always edit this as you want. So for the tool, for the tone of the voice, you want formal or informal. If you are running a brand which is more personalized and you want your touch tone, you can choose informal. But for this one, I'm choosing formal.  And then it will just get into creating a website. So it will do all the WordPress installation, creating other pages like your home about us and everything A to Z, three, four pages, whatever your basic website needs. And then that will take some time. Let's connect after the process is done. So as you can see, the process is complete. Let's see what our website looks like right now. It will open inside the elementary editor.  so that you can directly edit it from over. So in case you want to see the website without these elementary editing parts, I'll show you how to do that exactly as well. But first, let's just see what it cooked up in less than 5-10 minutes. It did not even take 10 minutes, it took just 5 minutes. So the hero section looks pretty good. Let's just open this separately in an incognito tab so that we can see how it actually looks.  So, the hero section looks pretty good. There are your featured articles and news. You can change these logos as you want. Your rating is there. All the services, benefits, team members are also there. Testimonials and newsletter. What else do you need? What do we expect in less than 10 minutes? To be honest, to a normal designer,  This will take almost a day or two to design and to develop the same time. So it just saved you two to four days of work and we did it for practically like if you took the premium also, then it's $10, $20 and it's very cheap.  And let's look at the other pages that it built for us. So it has a dedicated services page with very nice card layouts and same section for the stimulus. Very nice user experience as well, because if someone goes and sees your services and then they're in the store and see, okay, these guys have such a good reviews, then they are more likely to buy. About us page, let's have a look at that as well.  so mission statement, team members, same client distribution and this and contact yeah a simple form with your location as well so that people can contact you directly or reach you directly if they want as I said the UX is pretty nice they don't like this is really a very good UX if you think about it  And this sign up button, I don't have any functionality because we have to install some plugins to make it functional. So this sign up is, I don't think it's even necessary for this use case because we are not using any SaaS or something that they will sign up. They'll have to contact us and we'll have to contact them. So yeah, this is pretty good. We can obviously remove the sign up button. I'll show you how to do it. That I'll do.  So now that we have looked in the website, website looks pretty good. You want to make some changes and then everything is perfect. So as I said, let's just remove the sign up button. You can just click on it, right? And you can just click on delete button and it will delete. It's not deleting. Yeah, you can delete from here also. Yeah. So if you think this space is empty, then you can just delete that as well so that it looks pretty good.  And very good thing is it generated a small typographic logo as well. But I'll show you how to generate a proper logo. And as you know that Mirjani has a very bad limitation of not able to process text easily. I'll show you a tool which lets you do exactly that. So here, let's say you want to change this image in the hero section. It can be anything. So let's just look at the headline. Excel favorite driving e-commerce growth with strategic marketing.  So we can maybe add something like a graph for growth. So just for example, I'm using a Google image. You can use any image you want. Okay. Just for the time being, let's use this image from Mon Splash. That image just vanished.  problem, we will use something which is close to that. This looks good. Go back. To edit this, it's basically elementary from this point on. We are editing the header. So if you want to move to editing the body, you have to click on this edit page. Then the body editing will be active. Now you can edit everything inside the body. Click on the image.  and then to edit the image you just click on the left side here in the choose image part there will be a dialog box which opens which has all the images that have been stored till now you can just directly like move that image here  I think it's gonna take some time. Let me continue while it's uploaded. So image is uploaded as you can see. This is our image. Let's just select this. And it will be updated here. So you can adjust it as you want. You can crop it, you can make it longer. I just showed you the basic process so that you can move forward with it. And let's say you don't like this heading a lot and you want to change it up, but you don't know how to write copy.  That's very simple. You if you want something, let's see your idea is a pivot. Pixel pivot helps you revolutionize something like that, but you want that in a better tone so you can ride with. OK, let me just do it. Yeah, we'll click on this button right with the air. Once you click on this, you'll get the prompt just right here.  something like that and you can add other things also that make it catchy. Let's see what it makes. Okay, I just clicked the wrong button. So once this is done, you have to click on new prompt. Yeah, now you have to do whatever you want. So instead of typing it there, you have to go to new prompt, add a prompt and generate text.  So unleash the potential of our unimaginable globe solution. Let's just copy this or you can directly use this as it is. And you want to remove the quotes, you can do that. So I showed you how to change images, how to use different text, how to change everything. Here also you can change every image by going on the left.  So the editing part from now is very simple because as you know, getting something started is more difficult than fine-tuning it, right? So you've got the things in motion in 10 minutes. Now you can spend another 30 minutes or 20 minutes just fine-tuning it, changing the names, changing text here and there, and just have a functioning website to yourself in like less than one, one, two hours. So that is the magic of this website.  once you are happy with it you can always save it and so once you are happy you can update it and publish it also it's published so that is how you do create a website just with a prompt but for example you have a competitor who has a very fancy website you want the same style but you don't want to hire the editor because they chat a lot  So you have a way to do it now. Obviously, there is a gray area. You have to modify the design a bit and not keep the exact same design because then you will be also facing issues with them. But I'll just show you the process. That's what you do. It's on you. Just make sure to change enough so that they can't say anything. So let's say I have this guy as my competitor. I really like whatever is done on there. I want to copy this.  Now you can copy this thing directly with this tool. Just copy the link. And here, let's say I want to add a page which is similar to their home page. You can click on AI recreation, paste the URL. You can name this anything you want. I'm just naming that the same thing. And now it will create the web page for you without lifting a finger.  There will be a bit 10-20% discrepancy. You have to fix those but 90% work is done. You just have to fix small things. So once this is done, I'll connect back. So now the website is ready. Let's see what it made for us.  I'll let you decide. Just let me open this in a separate tab so that you can see. Yeah, to make it visible outside of the editor, you have to publish it first. Then you can just copy this URL that I'm giving you.  let's open it in call editor so that the editor overlays do not come up on the top so now tell me you're not impressed like this is let me open the original  This is the original one. As you can see, it caught like 90% of the things right, from the images to the layout and everything.  So now you don't have any excuse to say, I don't, you cannot hire a designer. You literally have a well-designed website. There will be some things which are a bit changed from the original layout, but you can always fix them by your own. So it's like just 10% of work you have to do, 90% of the work they added for you. And you can change these images according to branding and everything. So just, I don't know if this is not impressive in what it is.  okay let's so website building is done you need a logo okay I'll show you the tool which you can use to create a logo that is pretty good let me look at the website so check yeah so the website is called ideogram.ai  You have to sign up with Google for the first time you come here. So let's say I want the logo for my company, which is called Pixel Pivot, right? So we can just simply ask, create a high quality, minimalistic and modern logo for a digital marketing company named  And yeah, keep this one thing in mind, always put the text inside quotes. Let me copy the name. Yeah. So now just click on generate. It might take you a few generations to get things right. But as you can see, this tool gets text right, like a lot better than MidGen, like a thousand percent better. MidGen even speaks an Asian language sometimes.  and yeah it is pretty fast as well I think I like this one because this is like more modern so whatever you like you can go forward with it so let's say you like this one okay you can just use this character  Okay, I have to enable the editing process. Customize. Okay, edit with 10Gb IO, but it's not exactly called elementary. It's basically the same thing, still they rebranded it to bare only. So, here we go.  And let's first remove the background of this image. Go to remove.bg to remove the background of any image. As you can see. Now let's get back here. You have to click on edit header to edit the header portion.  Here we are using a text currently. Let's use an image. You know, you click here. Search an image. And you can delete this part. Well, for the image, you can just use the one which is down.  so this is it you can make it small form you can make it larger form I think this much is pretty good right let's just update our website you just saw me create a whole website from scratch and now I'll even take it to the next step I'll even add the domain to it so that your website is start to finish  So for connecting domain, you have to go here. Settings. Yeah, inside hosting, you can see domains. So just click on domains. Now you have to add a domain. So you can use any domain you like. You just have for domains, you can use any provider.  I'm using GoDaddy. There are several others like Google Domains, Namecheap and other ones. So let's go to our domain account on GoDaddy. As you can see, I have a couple of domains. To change the domain, it's very simple. You have to go to your hosting. You can add a domain. You have to add the domain address here. So let's try to watch. Now that we have added the domain,  It will fetch the details where it is currently pointing and ask you to change, update those details. So, name servers you have to update. To update name servers, you have to go central to the DNS. And here, you'll see a tab called name servers.  and this tab is basically what you change name server is basically very simple the domain is a name to your website your website is stored somewhere else so someone comes to your website you tell them okay go to this server right now they are pointing to this server we have to update it to our servers which is with like 10 minutes let's just copy this let me turn around status I think there are some issues  let me show you the other one so let's try with archi similarly here also go to name service change name service and here I'll use my own paste first go second just paste that also and usually all the service provider just need two domain name servers but  10Web needs more than 2, so we'll just add 2 manually. And once this is done, just click on save and the website will be redirected to your 10Web account very soon. It can take up to 2 days, but usually it is done in 1 hour. It depends on your hosting provider how fast they are at updating the DNS servers.  but it's usually less than one day. So once this is done, you can just click on save and it will work. So just do it and you have to verify if it's usually there is a two-step verification process to verify and then once the verification is done, you get the host. I don't have this email with me right now and you just have to enter a verification code and it will be done. So this step is also sorted.  It will show it here that you have these two domains. As soon as they're active, they will be ready to use. So now that you know how to build everything from scratch, I'll show you some other features of 10Web. Just quickly go through them so that you know what you're getting into. So in the overview tabs, you will see your page speed, how good the speed is in mobile and everything. Yeah, one thing I want to show you  that is how good and responsive this website is even on mobile phones so for responsiveness on mobile phone you have to there is a very big headache and here it's out of the box so let's just copy link so let's go to right inspect let's inspect this one of the phone you see it's magically the  It might look like a small deal, but usually web developers spend a lot of time making this responsive for mobile. So that's what a dashboard is all about. It's basically a glimpse of all the things you have. What is the WordPress installation you are on? What is you want to enable backups? What is the database like? Everything. The AI Builder is where you see all the AI features. Everything you need will be part of the AI Builder.  if you are running a store by any chance all the different settings will be in there and website booster is the one where you use to connect it with the CDN  So CDN is basically a content delivery network. So for example, you're sitting in India, you're accessing a website, the website is stored in the server in Mumbai, it will be faster to access the website, rather than accessing a website which is stored in the server in London, even though to you might feel like that it's all connected to all the satellites and internet and everything is there.  But at the end, internet goes in wires throughout the city. So how far the server is from you also depends, like besides the speed. So that's why, what a CDN does is, it creates a couple of copies of a website. For example, and it stores the website in different places in the world. One in Mumbai, one in New York, one in maybe Dubai, one in somewhere else. So that whatever person, wherever a person is accessing a website, they reach the closest server possible.  that way your website is very fast even to abroad users if you are into something like that you can obviously explore this feature it's currently a paid one you can also use cloud presidium which they also support but that is free up to a point after that you have to pay similarly you see the hosting where is your host server store what is the ip address and everything  So it's usually used whenever you are using different services like cloud and everything you have to use this IP server to redirect person back to them. This is what they are used. So there basically the point is their dashboard is also pretty neat. Usually you don't get this much settings in here. You have to look into a lot of things. You'll see all the tools that usually.  So this is cache. Cache is basically how long the website will keep the old data. So as you see, sometimes when you access a website, the first time it takes an eternity to load. But second time, it loads instantly. That is because the website has stored some cache on your device. So that cache is basically the main structure of the website so that every time you visit the website, you don't have to download the whole website on your phone.  That's what cache is. So usually it is recommended to keep the cache memory for 12 hours, 24 hours, because it's faster for the user to access the website multiple times a day. But after that, it's recommended not to extend it more because let's say you did some major change in your website and don't want the cache to be there because the user will still see the old website. So this is used to do that. If you want early updates, you can do. If you want one day updates, you can do whatever you want.  SSL certificate is what gives the website this lock icon.  So as you can see, if I click on the website URL right now, you can see HTTPS. This only comes when you have a SSL certificate. As you can see, HTTPS is enabled. That means your website is secured by HTTPS. Otherwise, it will be HTTP, not S. S means secured. So you can use their SSL or you can use custom SSL. Some companies like Cloudflare also provides SSL certificates.  and for php version they're using 7.4 you can update it if you want but i'll recommend stick to one that they gave you or ask them before updating because some features in the later versions are not there so your website might crash so just before doing it just check that out redirect is something that for example you had a page before where you're selling a product called i'll show you explain you with this redirect okay  So you're selling this product with the URL prompting techniques. Now you have renamed that product to prompting techniques 101. But your URL is out there somewhere. Many people are still coming in. You don't want those people to go to a 404 page, right? You want them to still buy the product. So you can set this up so that if someone comes to this page, they automatically get detected to this page because this is the new destination.  That's all about redirects. Similarly, other things are very much self-explanatory. Restore point is something like if you created a backup of your website, your website crashes or some attack happens on your website, then the website you can restore based on whatever time you want.  Similarly, it shows usage logs, hosting performance, and staging. Staging is basically the under-maintenance page you see sometimes when the website is updating. That's what is called the staging environment. Other important thing is the plugins. Being a WordPress website is the best part because you can use as many plugins as you want. The normal WordPress websites, whatever they have, you can use any of them. Similarly, your themes.  and you have backups and you have white label. White label is something where you want to sell this service to someone, but you want to sell this on your own name. So you can ask them to pay the price and then you can ask them, okay, use my logo here, use my branding here so that you can sell this service as your own. That's called white label. So this is all about your 10-way volume.  Let's say you don't want to use 10 web IO because it's any reason can be there. It's more expensive other things. I'll show you an alternative right now. So this tool is called durable AI. So what you can do is the same thing create a website using AI and if they promise it is done on the 30 seconds and see there are some other things like world's fastest builder effortless customization everything.  So this is basically the same tool as the one I just showed you. So the only thing is their pricing is a lot cheaper than that, not a lot, but a significant amount. And they also offer a 30 day money back guarantee. So here you can see it's just $12 a month. If you buy annually that if you're even if you're a business, we are just paying $20 a month. I think the base package there was $20.  And that's all you get everything and $20 a month. So I'll say only pick this one if you are short on funds, because otherwise I'll pick 10WebIO on any day over this, because that has a lot of features and it's far better than this one, but still it's not that far. So get this tool if the money is an issue, otherwise always pick 10WebIO. And as I just showed you, you can compile other tools like Chad50,  and the logo one called ideogram ai to create logo and get the content copy ready and just get your website running in one day so that's all for today if you have any doubts you can ask me in the comments here or you can ask in the whatsapp group as well so yeah bye bye let's connect on the next video 

Gamma App - Generate AI Powered Presentations and Documents

 Hey everyone, welcome to another video. This is Animesh again. So today we will be seeing a tool which I was truly fascinated to know. Like I get excited for very less tools, AI tools and this is one of them which truly like blew my mind. So believe me when I say this, this is literally the future. Like when I tried this tool, I thought how can something with this code and it is so easy to use.  I'll just show you better than telling you. So the tool I will talk about today is called Gamma AI. So basically what this tool is, it's a AI-based tool to create presentations, documents, and other things which require anything like text and design which is combined. So being a designer itself, there are very less tools which we can actually use in our daily workflow.  Like charge if it is all well and good, but when it comes to design, it cannot design for you, right? Can give you design ideas and everything, but this tool literally designs for you. I'll just show you what I'm talking about. And like knowing how good this tool is, that's why they got like number one product of the month on product hunt also. So there are some things like you can see generate docs, text, web pages, and everything will be polished and like ready in one click and everything will be  so awesome. I'll just show you. So this is the landing page. Basically, I have already created an account in case you don't you can just sign up for free and just create the account. Let me log into my dashboard and then I'll show you the process. So this is how it looks like when you have created the account already.  So when you click on create your first project, this is how the thing will look like. So this is the interface. You can design PPTs, you can design documents, you can design web pages. Let's go with presentations first, OK? So for presentations, for example, we want to create a presentation which is basically like AI automation you're hearing every day, right? And the most practical use case, I feel like, is in customer support industry.  So let's create how the customer support industry can be revolutionized with the AI. So let's just, okay, I have a prompt already ready. So this prompt says how AI automation is going to take over the customer support across all the industry in the future.  So let's see what it makes for us. And this, this is going to be insane. Like I'm not hyping. I was just like, it's just crazy. How about it? So it will show you the outline before creating it. If you want, you can change something here.  So introduction, current state of customer support, examples, benefits, challenges, future implications, and conclusion. I think it's a pretty solid workflow. Let's just see. So once you create an account, you get around 360 credits for free. Each generation is around 30 to 40 credits. So I think in the free one, you can get a good amount of generations. And now, one thing that impressed me a lot, like the web design in this, like, is insane. Like, you see?  If as soon as I change the template, it's gets like updated like instantly and all the themes are insane. Just like let's pick some good thing for our use case. Maybe futuristic and purple will blue and purple take will be good. Let's use this again. And now it will literally generate the PPT in front of you. Like you don't even have to wait to think  like okay yeah these guys are working on me let me wait five ten minutes literally do it in front of you so that you can enjoy looking at and the design aspect is really insane like it's so good you cannot ignore it it generates so yeah once this is done let's see  Yeah, it's pretty solid, the image selection, everything you can change. For example, you want another slide. You want maybe a graph and a thing. Difference between current human support and external support. You can directly ask it to create anything. So let's just ask it. So create a new card about table explaining the difference.  Let's keep it simple and see what it puts up. So it can create graphs also, it can create diagrams also. Not the complex ones obviously, but the ones which they already have in their system. So you can leverage those. I'll show you where to see. As you can see, it's just generated. And you can create something like a timeline also. Create a card.  which represents the function checker. Let's see what it makes.  As you can see, how crazy like this, like apart from the content, the design is insane and the copy is also pretty solid. So you can do fine tuning like this. All you want, you can add as many slides as you like and slowly and steadily you will get there what you're looking for. So now that we have this ready, you can customize everything you want. Let's say we can customize your AI automation.  This is the picture. This is very simple. Image also, you can change directly from here. Let's just keep changing, keep changing whatever you want. If you want to get something other than that, then you can select directly from here or you can directly change the focus point also. This, how it comes to help, I'll share you. But for now, let me just show you the editor. So this is the car templates that you can use. You can use any of them.  For example, you want to add your team. Done. So you just update this and you're good to go. And similarly, with the card templates, you have all the text things. So you want the heading inside of here. You can do all that stuff. Here are callouts. Here are the column grids. So you want like a four by four column. And you can directly add it and just enter your text. So, and similarly, as I showed you, the charts are also there.  and everything is pretty much like self-explanatory here you can generate image you can upload any image you want anything you want and videos also you can embed and i'll show you the best part of it so after some customization you can get it to look as you want i'll just show you something i made like in less than 10 minutes okay so i think this is the one and i just generated it with ai spent like 5 10 minutes and this is how it looks  So like it's really insane like how what you can make like to be honest making something like this will take at least like three to four hours for a designer to make something like this because not only that you have to just put in the content you have to actually make it look good which this tool somehow is able to do. So once this is done it will show you the crazy part. So for example, you are done all this thing. Okay. Now you want to present this.  and this whole thing is responsive so it will just increase based on your size screen size if it's full screen and on full screen it's like you want a small one then you can get small one also so like yeah it's pretty insane to be honest like like being responsive also and not only that you can only share it as a link or something which most AI tools like I think Chrome also does not let you export things you can here come here and just export this  as PDF, as PowerPoint, whatever you want. You can even share the link also if you want to. So yeah, this tool is pretty insane. I was surprised of how good it is. And like this, not only you can create presentations, you can create documents also for your college projects and everything. And let me just show you another example. So let's create something new. This time, let's create a document. So I have another prompt.  This is more focused towards digital marketers. So how digital marketing is the best way to grow your brand in 2021. Pretty straightforward, pretty much. It's like simple. So as you can see, they again gave us introduction, benefits, digital tools, importance, challenges, complete. Pretty good. Let's just generate it. For this one, let's pick something else, maybe surprise me. Yeah, this is nice.  okay let's try see what I don't think I have to say anything at this point like you can see in front of your eyes what's happening and what's not so just tell me in the comments honestly if I were to give you create a presentation or a document like this with all the copy with all the design up to you how much time will it take you to like  and one more thing if you like for example chose the wrong theme for example and later on you do not like it you don't have to regenerate the whole thing you can just go to themes and you can just select what you want so you can be light on yourself while selecting the theme and later on after the content is generated and everything you can see okay fine let me change change change okay this one looks good this one does not look good yeah like this one looks pretty solid to me  very simple and the same tools work here also you can add any stats you want you can change things you can present and this thing will be all yours like fully responsive and everything and like tools like this must like i i am surprised they are offering this for free but obviously in the future they might increase the price we are fine tuning maybe today at this cheaper price so  Even you can get the analytics of how many people have watched. Like it's a full-fledged tool with no, I don't think there are anything which needs to be added at this point. Like the product itself is very solid. The only thing I don't like so much is their web builder. The website builder is not so solid right now. They are not focusing on that, but considering that they are in general a document or a presentation building tool.  It's like did get the task done like very easy. So for things like web design, I'll say stick to 10 web durable something like that or the UiZard also. So yeah, that's pretty much it for the gamma AI tool. Try it out and share your like your generations on WhatsApp or the comments. I'll love to have another one. Okay, bye, take care. 

Looka - Create a Logo for your brand with AI

 Hey everyone, this is Animesh back with another video. In this video, we are going to see a logo making tool. So this tool's name is Luka.ai. The URL is, okay, luka.com is the URL. So as you can see, not only the URL, you'll get all the brand assets like mockups and everything that you might need for your brand.  Previously, you have to hire some designers or get someone to design an agency or something. But let's say you don't have that much budget to hire a proper designer. You are willing to put in 10, 20 minutes of your time to get a logo done. Correct. So as long as you know what you have, what you want, you have that in mind, this tool can help you out a lot. As you can see, they are prominent customers like Google.  and the logo makers is very simple I'll show you how it works and let's get started so when you come to the website this is what it will look like so let's today let's for the irony of it let's just design a traffic design company's logo with this tool so the name I chose is pixel perfect  So now I have to choose what the industry is. So as it's a graphic design company. So we choose the same. Now you have to choose some logos as per your liking. So  Many times when you also hire a logo designer or someone, they'll show you his previous work and ask you which style you like the most. Because many times, the style which matches your vibe might not come in the first draft. So to get that style faster, they'll just show you what works I have done till now, what you like the most. So similarly, this website does the same thing. It will show you what it can produce. Based on that, you can choose whatever you like. So let's pick some good ones for our agency.  like this one and this one this one is good this one is simple but it is also good this is nice  So as you can see, I have selected the logos I like. I like minimalistic logos, which are easier to view on a smaller scale, so that even if it's printed, no details are getting lost. So let's see. So as it's a graphic design company, it should show that creativity and other aspects. I'll use pink, orange for that. But I'll pick blue also, because who does not like blue?  So for the slogan, I have the slogan ready, where vision meets precision. You can use ChatGPT. I literally used ChatGPT to generate this slogan, as you can see. I had a slogan for a graphic design company named Pixel Perfect, and this came, and I made a shorter version, but this was not so good, so I'm going with this one. So after you have your slogan, it's not mandatory, by the way. If you don't have a slogan, you don't have to stress it.  So then we are companies, the rubber design company, web design is also there designing. And design agency, creative, design, creativity. This should work. Now they are processing your inputs and generating a logo for you. So a good thing about this is you're not getting a single option to pick from or to develop from.  we are getting hundreds and hundreds of options and this is AI generated so you have a lot of like trial and error case so you can see what you like and what you don't I like this one for now but we will come back to it if we don't find anything better these are pretty good logos to be honest like created in 2 minutes yeah this is pretty cool this is also really nice I like the icon of this a lot let's see if we have something more  This one is also really nice. If we change the color of this, it can be pretty good. Let's see. I'll see 4 or 5 more options and I'll otherwise go with that one on the top. That one is pretty nice. This one is also nice.  Okay, I'm going with that one. As I said, changing the color and everything might make it look more similar to what I'm looking for. So you can do that directly in the editor itself here. So as I select this logo, you see there is a gradient filter, right? So instead of gradient, I can just pick a color of some sort like  There are only gradients here but I can change any other color. Let's just go here in the colors. Let's see what options do you have. First let's change the text so we can see it clearly.  yeah this is pretty nice and for the face for the icon we do the same I'll pick the same color and yeah for this one also I'll change the color yeah pretty nice so if you want you can change the whole icon as well as you can see there are a lot of icons  Let's see if we can find something even better than that, otherwise we'll go with that one. That's pretty nice. Let's go with this one. This is pretty modern and minimalistic.  yeah you have your logo ready and the best part is you're not only getting the logo but as you can see business card how it will look like on your website or a mobile app like all the logo files and everything you will get  you just have to pay them and the best part is like you can use this as a part of inspiration if you are a designer so let's say a client gave you a logo idea and then you want to work on it but you want some inspiration at first so you go here play around with it you reach to this point and then you can like use this as an inspiration and if you are a client you are creating this you can directly just go to download  and then you have multiple options. If you just want logo files, then you can go get with it. You can go on to our website, other things. Everything is there which is customizable. So, let's say I just want the logo files for now. So, you can get the download, the granted directly. And now it will show us the price. So, basic logo package is what will give you the, what it came here for.  a basic logo for $20 not a bad deal after looking at like 50-60 logos you got one and it's just $20 it's pretty nice and if you want a premium logo package it will have multiple high-res files which will have basically I think a one with a black background one with white and full HD of both in quality so unlimited changes lifetime technical support and full ownership as well  So yeah, this is the one I think is the ideal package. If you just came for a logo, you'll get everything you need that you might need for your business. And this one is for premium clients to be honest. Like you can get high resolution ones and you can get other things like business card, email signatures and everything that I showed you. All the things are included here.  and here what we'll get is a generated website also so how much will that be like 30 plus 4 dollars so 34 dollars is getting a website when you just came for a logo and you have make sure the website is AI generated so no one is sitting here to generate it so you are not getting super steal deal 10web is also very similar but still it's a pretty good deal as I said  So yeah, if you came with a logo, for a logo or something, just get these two things, any of these packages, one-time fee, and you're good to go. If you came here for these, all the things, you want the whole grand fee. So if you hire an agency to do all this, this will be pretty expensive, considering that $96, it's still cheap.  So it's on you, whatever you want to do and whatever, like the whole logo is fully customizable. Whatever you want to change, you want to change the icon, you want to change the font, you want to change the color and icon. So some might ask, why can't I just use Canva instead of this? Like, why would I use this one? Because in Canva, you have to use your own brain a bit to get these things sorted. So the thing is they have a pretty good collection of icons, right?  So you have everything in one piece. You can sit here and spend 10 minutes and get it done. And it's AI generated, so there is no issue of copyright also if you buy off this then only. And in Canva, the thing is you might get a template or something. You're going to use that and you might run into copyright-based issues in the future. So it's on you, whatever you decide. It is just a very  like faster alternative to like basic even softwares like canva and if you are like looking for something which is professional yet cheap then i think this is a pretty good good thing you can go with at the moment so let me know what you think about this platform in the comments and you can ask me if you have any doubts in the comments or in the whatsapp group also thank you and bye bye let's connect on another video 

Uizard - Desiging the UI for a mobile app

 Hey everyone, how are you doing? This is Animesh. Today, we are going to talk about another AI tool which will blow your mind. So this tool's name is UISalt. So what this tool does is it takes simple text forms from you and creates real apps like UI and UIS of real mobile apps, which you might have to hire a UIS designer.  In the past, now AI will do it for you. So let's say you wake up in a good day and use this thing. I have this app's idea, but to get the UI design, to get it developed and everything, it costs a lot of money and everything. So you just drop the idea altogether, isn't it?  So at least your designing part, this tool has helped you because they even just drop in your idea, tell it what you need, tell it the style you're looking for. It will design in mere second in front of your eyes. So let's get started. And just so you know this, the tools URL is uisr.io. And as you can see, there are several features like the one I told you this, this one lets you create apps just by text.  and you can even create like watch rims on from your hand and then upload them to USR and get a proper UI design directly from there.  And then you have features like collaborations, comments, like string models. So it has professional AI, professional tools, features of UIS design software plus integrated AI. So that it's easier for someone like normal person to get into designing. If you are a beginner UIS designer also, it will help you a lot to actually make things very fast, test and fit. So that's one of the fastest way to learn.  So without any more talking, let's just get into the tool. So you have to sign up. I have signed up. So I'll just log into my account and the crazy one thing I just told you about is called the AI designer or something. Let me see. I think it's called the auto designer. Yeah. So auto designer is what we are going to show you today. So let's design a mobile app. So I had an idea for a long time.  So for an app which basically lets you barter space. So in not in a way that I'll do this for you because I'm a designer you write copy for me or you do this for me because I'm a designer. But rather I'll teach you design because I'm a designer in return you teach me copywriting. So something like that and the name I came up with this like skill swap. So pretty generic name. Let's just use it. So I have a description written down for you.  As you can see, you have to first describe your project in plain English, right? So this is my description and app called Skillswap, which connects individuals looking to exchange skills. For instance, a person who will teach guitar might want to learn coding. This app matches you with such individual based on proximity and interest.  So yeah, it's kind of pretty well accurate of what I'm looking for. So you just try to be as much detailed but still be concise so that you have the 300 word limit. And then you have to describe the style. So I want it to be more of a lively app.  So I'm going with the Bohemian hand-drawn element style with some photographs and other things and then teal and burnt out orange earthy robes so that it's like down to earthy. And then for the UI, I like the app UI overall, but this one, let's go light because this is more of a lively app, light, modern and techie, young and elegant. I think not elegant, I guess.  I think that's enough because it's not exactly elegant. Let's see what it makes for us. So it will take a few seconds about a minute and then it will start designing in front of you. So let's wait for it and let's see what it's made for us in just a few minutes.  So I'm enabling again. Now this process is pretty much very, very satisfying. Like you can see the things getting into place in front of their eyes. Yeah, now it's, I think it's complete. Let's just have a look. Let's zoom in. Yes. Let's close this.  So yeah, now this is the splash screen. Here you have first. Let's see what screens it made because we did not specify anything. Right? Let's see what it made by itself. So a splash screen which is pretty nice. Then we need an email and sign up process. Okay, and then we have the home screen. So popular skills screens categories.  Okay, in the search page, search results, and they also added stock images for the places. And this, they also went ahead and thought about integrating a chat option also. I honestly did not have any idea that yeah, chat function will be so helpful in this one. It's pretty cool. Then you have the profile page. So as you can see, the UI is pretty neat.  Still, I would say it's not exactly there where a professional AI designer can be like should be worried about this tool, but obviously this will grow and get better over time. I don't think they did make this tool for like proper projects where you need the UI designed properly by them. This is usually the phase where people test out things well.  So let's say I woke up today, I had this idea, I put it into UiZot, they gave me a layout. Now I know what I'm working with, right? Now I understand, okay, we need to integrate chat as well, we need to integrate this and that, okay, some good ideas. This is how the app might look like, okay. So there are a hundred different things that you need to consider before hiring a proper designer.  So this will make the process easier for you. So now you have a flow in your mind. So whenever you hire a designer, they'll ask you for questions like this. Like, do you have a flow in your mind? What is the user journey? This and that. So if you just have a rough idea, it might be difficult for you to communicate that to the designer. So it makes your life and the designer's life easy in such a way. So yeah, this tool is pretty cool. And I'll show you how to edit things also.  let's say this hand is pretty messed up right so you all know AI is not good at making hats so they basically generated the image by themselves we can change it directly by here also this AI suggest option will help you out with that so I don't want to use a wrench here but a smiling man would be rather better okay illustration let's see  This is pretty artistic to be honest. This one's pretty nice. Welcome to connect and learn. So the editing part is super easy. As you can see, you can drag and drop things here and there. And also you can change things like you can ask here to generate  thing for you also so you might need to change the copy somewhere and like that like you as you can see get moving on here before we had something else and like that we can keep on changing so this is basically your playing ground once you are happy with whatever you got in here you can use this to design your final layout okay and there are some pretty cool features here so let's say  you have a competitor of yours you want a very similar design but you don't want to hire the designer or just like some there might be 100 reason you want to copy someone just because maybe you love their website and they you want something similar right. So you can actually use someone's website design or app design to copy their layout. I'll just show you what I mean. Let's go to maybe Behance website.  Okay, so VNs has a pretty nice UI. Maybe let's see if we can copy their website or not. So, let's go to VNs homepage. Yeah, okay. So, this is pretty cluttered. I would say let's go to Dribbble, I guess. Dribbble, yeah. This is nice. This is pretty cool and pretty clean. So, I want something like this. I want it quick.  I won't want to sit around and design everything. I want something to work with. I obviously don't want to copy and type things because then you'll have a lot of work on your hands. But I want their layout to be in my design system. So I can simply take a screenshot, okay. Let's take a full page screenshot. Once that is done, now we can bring that screenshot into our UI cert, okay.  So to access this AI features, you have to go inside the magic tab. Once you're inside this auto designer is what we use to create this layer. Then this is what we're using. I'll show you this one also. This one we are going to use to get the screenshot to be a proper UI. So it will take some time to process the image.  Once it detects it, it will ask you, is it a mobile or a web? It will detect itself once. Then it will say, OK, it is a web. Then it will recommend you it is a web, but you can correct it at any time. So yeah, it is a website. So it will process it. I'm not sure if they will zoom in a bit or not, because the portion is a bit messed up.  if it does not work I'll retake the image but only which the part which is like visible right there so while it's processing let's go to twiddle again and it's this time let's just take a screenshot of the thing which is visible so yeah this is done let's save this save it  Let's import another one. And this is our image. And then again, it will detect it automatically that it's a serverless image. Import this.  I think it will process faster than that because this has proper dimensions in place. So it is done with scanning the image. Now, let's see if it was able to, okay. So as you can see now, these things are selectable.  so everything zoom in a bit as you can see even these cards small small cards with copy right and yeah this is pretty nice like you can change this i can ask ai to change it i don't have to even write anything so yeah even if you're not a like copywriter you can still use this tool access the best treatment and yeah it's pretty nice let's increase the width  and yeah we have something to work with you can make this bold you can do whatever you want and you have the whole menu bar all design everything so this is how it works okay and i'll show you the other feature the crazy feature which is called wireframe so i just designed this wireframe uh in like two minutes and i'll import this to uizr  I'll show you it will create a UI with just that like bad sketch. That's what you want to call it. So let's just try it. So a wireframe is something where basically when you're designing a UI project, there are few phases. So first is wireframe phase where you just draw by hand how it will look like.  Then we get the low-fidelity layout. Let me just import this first, so that you can process what I'm talking. Go with the low-fidelity layout, which is basically a static screen. Like you have your elements in place, you know how everything is placed. Then we go to high-fidelity prototype page. So this is something which is called a high-fidelity prototype page. Why? Because we can interact from screen to screen. So I'll show you the interaction. As you can see, everything is connected.  So it's like a proper app, but in a prototype format. It's not live yet, but you can still interact with it. I'll show you how the interaction looks like in a while. First, let's go to our scanned image. So as you can see, with that normal sketch, it gave us a cool layout. Like you can just drag around things and make it work like how you want it, but you do not have to  Like I usually use Figma to design layouts. So after designing the wireframe, I have to import the image, have to draw squares on top of them and then make everything work from there, right? So instead of that, here you're getting that thing done for you. So it's like a junior designer at your hand. So who will do whatever you want, the basic things at least it will take care of. So these are two pretty cool features. You can design a whole app with just  few text forms and you can even copy anyone's layout. Please don't do that. But yeah, I can copy someone's whole layout, part by part just by importing it here. And same with Viagram. You can draw rough sketches on your piece of paper. You can import it here. It will create it into  low fidelity layouts. So this is what I call a low fidelity layout and something like this is what you start with and then you read something like this. Okay, and I'll show you what interaction looks like. So you can just click on air preview here. Then they will be able to interact with buttons and everything. So yeah, so as you can see if you click anywhere on the screen, there will be blue highlights that these buttons are working. So  I can get started. I can enter my email also. So this is an email, then I have a password. Then I sign in. Then obviously this is not like working anywhere. I did not sign up, then it go to database. It's just like a show. How it will work is something you send to the client before they send it to the developers. They say, okay, this is how it works, right?  Now it will go show the search page and write things like here and search it also and here is a profile. So I'll show you how to create this interactions also. So as you could as you have seen a while signing up. Okay, let me go to the first screen. While signing up you saw there is a chat button, but it is not connected to anything right? I'll show you that this one is connected. This one is connected, but this button is not useful.  so we can just click on this and click this lighting lighting icon we can drag it to whatever part we want so let's say I want to connect to the chat one so yeah now simply connect it to the chat one and then connection is made now when I start the interaction again then let's say I start the interaction again that button will be functional this time so as you can see all three buttons are functional  So you can click on this and use whatever you want. Like this it will work. So UIZ is a pretty good tool if you are recently getting into UI design or you are someone who has a lot of ideas in his head but has not implemented anything yet because of the investment or the money, investment of time or investment of money it takes. So this is a very good play town to play with. You will see your idea coming to life.  Let's say you don't like it, right? You can make it 10 times over and see, okay, this is something I like, and this is something I don't. So it's very handy tool. And not only that you can design things, like you can generate things on it. You can design things from scratch also. So for example, I come here, I want to design a landing page. So they have proper templates to use to design things. Like I call it the canva of  the UIS design world. So you can think of it like that. So as in designing, Photoshop is the thing which people use to create design from scratch to end, isn't it? You can create a fully-fledged design from Photoshop. But let's say you're not a proper designer, you want something to use, but you don't want to spend time in learning design.  So what you do, you go to Canva, you pick the template, you customize it to what you like, and you use that, isn't it? So it's cheap, it's time efficient.  And in general, handy for people who don't want to hire a software designer because of like constraints of resources, but still wants to have some good designs in with them, right? So similar to that, this tool is a very good replacement to Figma, Adobe XD or something like that for people who are not into UI designing, but into product. So they like.  creating products, they like thinking about various ideas. So for those people, it's a pretty handy tool. I will recommend this one any day if you're getting started with designing or if you are a client who does not want to spend on a good designer at the start because you're not sure what your idea is. So yeah, you can check out this tool.  Let me know what you think and you can ask all your doubts in this comment section or you can message me on the WhatsApp group also. Take care. Thanks for listening to me and I'll get back to you with another amazing video. 

Kaiber AI - Create Fuild AI Generated Video to go Viral

 Hello everyone, this is Animesh Mata, back again with another video. Today we will see how to create these cool AI generated videos. And let me show you an example first, then we're going to see what we're going to create. So you might have seen these crazy videos on the internet from the last few months.  So as you can see, these are like static images, but they layer on top of it and they keep evolving from warrior to like, I think a saint at the end of the video. So this kind of look you can achieve by using this AI tool called Kyber AI.  So from this tool, you can literally generate video from text. And there are several methods you can generate a video. But the way this website work is you add your text, it generates an image, like how MidGen it does, but it goes one step ahead and creates a whole video out of that image. So isn't that cool? Like that's the coolest thing I have heard in this year, I think, like text to video.  and not only by that you can create text from directly uploading your own image or you can also upload your own video to create even more smoother video because you have more control over the motion right so let me show you from this cover image let me explain you how this works so this is generated from a text or an image so it's like static it's going zooming out zooming in the changes are there so this is generated from like a video  Right, so that's why there is more movement and motion into it. So today we are going to create this version only where there is a video. We're going to give it the AI look and that will probably boost your reach by 10X, right? Because people are now used to watching stock videos and all they want something unique and this tool will definitely give you exactly that. So without getting started before getting started with this tool, let's see what are the features of this tool.  So as you can see, bring your dreams to life, right? Here you'll see some images generated by this tool. And there is a new feature in this tool right now. Let's say you're a music artist, okay? You want to create a music video, but you don't have a budget of several hundred million dollars or something to create a video like Anisingh or some other artist, right? So you can create the whole video by just using Kyber AI. What will happen is you upload your soundtrack or your music.  You add an image to it and based on your prompt and your image, it will generate the video and it will interact with the beats of your song. If that's not crazy, I don't know what is, you will basically get a free AI generated video, not exactly free, but yeah, it's very cheap, like one-tenth or one-hundredth of the cost of creating actually a video and that too from AI sitting at your home.  So other than that, the other features I already discussed, they recently added this new feature called motion. Previously, it used to happen like this. There is a static images layer on top of them. They will keep on changing, but there is some jitteriness, right? But the new motion effect makes it smoother, makes it like a movie, right? But this is not so important for us because our video will be anyway smooth because we are using a video instead of an image as a source.  right other than that here are some creators and the pricing starts at five dollars you can get the free trial for seven days for even free you get 100 credits if you sign up right now so what you have to do is come to this website kyber.ai here you can see the url kyber.ai and once you are here you have to just sign up using your google email or email id  Then you have to add your card details, but don't worry, they won't be charged on day one. They will be charged after seven days. So once you sign up, add your details, you'll get 100 credits for absolutely free. You can cancel that free trial anytime you want, even though you've used credits, that doesn't matter. So once you have signed up, you have to come here and click on create video button.  So here is the interface. Right now you are allowed to choose between any of these two. Here is the motion kind of smooth layout. Here is the image static kind of layout like a flip book.  So we are uploading a video so this doesn't really matter and let's uh, there are three ways as I told you from an image from a Video or from a soundtrack and you can just write a prompt also if you don't have any of these So let me upload the video by clicking on this button and then i'm going to continue from there So here as you can see in my video, it's there is a lady walking on the side of a beach Very simple. Let's make it interesting  Here you can write your prompt. So basically this is where your prompts get structured. Here you have to write your subject. So I want to create a video about a lady walking, running, jogging basically.  Okay, and you can add something called a style also. So what happens is these are basically the styles they have  really like the steampunk style so I'm gonna add the steampunk and this is basically gonna add things for you itself it's gonna auto generate the prompt if you select the style from here you can basically edit it also you can write on your own but according to my experience this works pretty well pretty well with the default ones as well so I'm gonna keep it as it is I have added my  subject also now let's get to the next part and don't worry unless and until you create and generate video you won't be charged any credits so let's generate a free preview for us here you can see first we have to add a video setting now this is very important  what this transform metric control is how much variation will be there in your video if you have chosen 0 there will be very stable there will be very minor changes by each frame but you have chosen like 10 or something it will change every very fast right so according to me i prefer to keep it around 4 to 6 that is the safe zone but if you want you can go crazy with it by any value you want try experimenting from it see what gives you the best results  so as you can see this gonna cost me around 25 credits basically because my video is around 5 seconds long or 4 seconds long something like that so if your video is longer it will cost you more credits it's based on the video length and how much transform you are adding and other things  Let's create on generate previews. Still now it won't charge me. Generating previews basically generates an image of the first frame. And if you like it, you can go ahead and click on generate a video. So let's wait for some time and it will generate our images. And till then let me explain you the concept of storyboard. So what storyboard is, let's say you want to create a whole storyline or a movie.  a lady is running on the beach and then jumping in the water something like this you can create individual scenes like that and based on that your composition will change so that way you can create a whole movie from it but for this video I am going to create only one scene but you can obviously replicate it and create multiple scenes and Khyber is going to add a good transition between them as well using this storyboard feature  so let's see what are the results that we got based on that I'm gonna play I'm gonna move forward so here as you can see this looks like she's running in a marathon on this one this are three are very similar I really like I think marathon one the most so let's click on the marathon one and let's click on create video  So now it's going to take that reference image. It's going to generate other images on top of it and then merge them all together to make a smooth video. So let's wait for a while. Let's see what it generates for us.  So our video has been finally generated. Let's see what we got. So as you can see, the video is very fluid compared to other AI generated videos and the reason being we used a video as a source. You can see the sand is evolving, the lady is evolving.  right the background is also changing here and there and it's giving that AI kind of look it's making that 2D look in that 3D scenario which is very unique and let me show you the old video for example of how that looked in comparison to this one  So here you can see this is the old video. Let me play that for one second. Here you can see normal basic standard stock footage, right? But if you post this as it is, people are not going to like it. They see it every day, isn't it?  But this is something actually unique, people are going to follow it and say, OK, fine, this is cool. I really like it. They can share it to other people also. They will think this is fully generated with AI. But at the end of the day, we made the motion part by our own, which gives us a lot of control. Just think about this. You record a video of you dancing or you moving around or you're running. You can create that whole into an AI.  So you don't have to worry about what your surrounding looking like and this and that. It will replace you with an AI avatar of you. Just have to define that avatar. Like right now it looks like a lady jogging in a marathon vest. You can change it something like Indian woman wearing some  jewelry anything you want you can add anything and make it in your own style so I hope you like this video using this style you can create many things like from trailers to short films to even full-fledged movies and at like a significantly cheaper cost than a traditional movie right and uh comparing to that to a traditional movie you will have a unique look as well  So, you can play all the characters by your own. So, let's say there is some mafia movie, you are the villain, you are the hero and you basically replace yourself on those scenes with some AI generated figures. You can define an AI generated figure for the villain, you can generate an AI generated prompt for the hero and you can use those on those scenes instead of you. So, you can create a full fledged movie without hiring any actors also.  so I hope that gives you some cool ideas if you have any more cool ideas you can ask let me know in the comments so you can ask me any questions if you want and you can tag me in the whatsapp group as well I'm an admin Animesh Mahato you can search my name in case I'm not able to respond I might be off or on a vacation you can contact me anytime you want on LinkedIn or Instagram I'll definitely respond to you here you can see this is my  Instagram and image design so you can follow me here or you can basically message me here and Here is my LinkedIn. You can just search my name and You can message me there in case I'm not able to respond to you on whatsapp or anywhere else So I hope you found this video helpful If you have any doubts, you can always ask me as always and we'll meet again in another cool video Till then have a great day and best of luck 

Runway ML - 10x your Filmmaking Career

 Hello everyone, this is Animesh Mamato and welcome to another video. Today's video is going to be really special because this is very unique of a use case that I'm going to talk about today.  It's very much useful for creative professionals, people who are in filmmaking and even if you just want to visualize your ideas and go to the next step. So till now we know that if we want to have something visualized we can use Midgenny, DALI, DaVinci AI, any image generation platform. But the problem with those are they are limited to an image. So let's say you want an image of a person walking in the street.  okay or streets of France something like this so you will get an image but an image can only take you to a certain extent right let's say you are writing a movie script or a movie storyboard you need proper scenes so those images are useful but still if you convey to the other person that this is how my scene will look like you need to still give a narration or some type of like some types of details of that image right you can't just give them the image and think they will understand everything  Today what we're going to do is put live into that image and actually get a video out of it. So the videos that you're going to see they're seeing in front of me are all generated just with AI and just by using either text or image or even if you want you can use a video. But today we are going to see the image one because that is the most powerful part of this AI tool.  If you want, if you're interested in the look into generating a video from video, you should check out the last video in this series, the Kyber video, where I've shown you how you can use the Kyber AI tool to create a very unique look of generating a video to video.  But today's video is about something about visualizing ideas and presenting your ideas in a better way. And instead of going out there or shooting the scenes or buying stock footage, you can get all that done from this AI tool sitting at home. I'm going to introduce you one more step. Instead of using the image generation module available inside Runway,  We will use a much powerful image generation AI model which is inside of mid journey. Then we're going to bring that image to RunwayML and we're going to put life into it. So without wasting any more time, let's get started. So here you can see this is the RunwayML website and here is the URL runwayml.com.  I'll put this link in the description of this video. So if you want, you can go right now and sign up. When you do sign up, you get around 100 seconds of footage for free. And if you want, you can upgrade as per your needs. So as you can see here, the brand statement is advancing creativity with artificial intelligence. So if you scroll down a bit here, you can see something about their team, some AI generated videos that they have.  And here are some examples you can see. You can see they can generate formal video, generate formal image. You can expand also. There are way more features which are much, much more powerful than other AI tools. So without wasting any time, let's create an account and get into it. So once you create your account, this is how your dashboard is going to look like.  So let it wait, let's load it. So this is how your dashboard will look like. If you want to generate with an image, you should click here. If you want to generate with text, you should click here. But first we need the image to generate, right? So let's go to our mid journey and actually generate the image that we are going to create a video out of.  So if you don't know how to use mid journey, there are several videos about that in the AI text to image course, you can watch those and follow along after that. So if you know already how to use mid journey, then it's well and good, let's go back to our. So this is basically how mid journey looks like, okay. So here you play, add your prompt, it gives you an image, and then we're gonna place that image in RunwayML.  so for this example i have a few ideas let's say how about i have my prompt here so an astronaut floating in the space clouds all around so this will basically be our  prompt so an astronaut is in the space is floating around even though there are no clouds in the space mostly but we still have it for the visual appeal so let's run it and let it run i think i put the wrong prompt in let me try again yeah let's try this time i think this should work yeah this works  Next image we are going to generate. I'm going to show you two examples which I think will tell you about the capabilities of the tool the best way. So an image from space and another image from the sides of London. So let me grab the prompt. Here is my prompt. Man wearing a hat silhouette walking in the streets of London in the night dark and gloomy. As much detail as you give the better.  That way the AI has more information of what you're looking for. So let's run this thing also. And I think our astronaut in the space image is also generated. Let's see what we got. So I think this looks pretty interesting. Although there is a lot more motion going on, I want it to be a bit more minimalistic. Let's regenerate this one more time. We'll try to see if we can get a result which has less things moving around. We just want an astronaut in the space, that's all.  So in all these, I feel like this one is the best. So let's expand this one also. And here is our image which is generated. So as we can see, I really like this one. This one has proper lighting in it. Other ones are too much lit for a night scene. So let's expand this one.  So here we can see there is another image generated for us. And I think this one is just perfect. Let's expand this. All the images which are in third position are the best ones. So now that we have the image, you should download this in full quality by right-clicking and then clicking on save image. Okay, save images. I'm just copying the image on the side for now. I'm just gonna drop it in the Rango ML.  So here is our another image which we just generated. And let's also grab the last image of the astronaut that we got from the previous result. We'll see what we get from that one also. Here is the other one.  So once we have all the images, let's go back into RunwayML. Now we're going to click on start with image. OK, here there are three ways you can create an image from using image or text. One is plain text, another one is just the image and the third one is combination of both image and text.  so I will only recommend the third option if you want some sort of specific movement like walking and all that we gonna use for the image with description for other ones image is good enough because otherwise it will change the image a lot and it will use image just as a reference so for the astronauts let's do just the image and for the image plus description one let's do the man who is walking on the street so for this one let's put in our image  and each second cost you five credits I think when you sign up you get around 500 credits so you'll have around 100 seconds of footage so here you can see this is my 77 seconds are left for my plan here you can see how much it's costing you  every generation so once you have added it you can change the duration of the clip I prefer to keep it at 5 seconds and there are few more settings here you can do set but I prefer to keep it as it is because that way it generates very good video in case you are getting a bit bad like image it is a bit choppy so I would recommend turning off this interpolation  so what this basically does is Runway does not create every frame from like in each second there are 60 frames or 30 frames sorry 30 frames so there are 30 images in each second what Runway does is it generates an image for every 3 second and then uses interpolation to add frames in between so that is basically a kind of like a advanced topic you don't have to do too much in detail into it just see if it works if does not work just uncheck it  so once you have everything set up let's just generate it the best part about this is you don't need to wait around for it to generate you can just delete this image from clicking here and once you have deleted you can add the other image also and just click on generate and generate and all of them will be generated all at once so let's wait for our image to upload then we are going to add the walking person's image with the description  So as you can see, our image has been uploaded. Let's generate a video from this one. And once it is generated, let's delete the image. Let's go to image plus description. Drag and drop our walking person's image here. And we're not going to do anything special. It's going to go back to mid journey. We're going to copy the same prompt that we used. Just a man wearing a hat. I don't think so.  let's copy this whole thing we don't have to do too much detail because if you do too much detail the person might change so i'm just removing the hat and this a man wearing  I am walking in the streets of London in night. This much is enough. This will just give RunwayML what is the motion we are looking for and it won't change the image a lot. So that way you can use the text description without bothering the image a lot. So let's see what results we got.  I don't think I have to say anything. As you can see, it itself thought and generated a whole scene where the astronaut is there. There is a dark kind of layout at first, okay. And when the sun comes in, the astronaut moves around and looks at this. So, I think that's pretty cool. Let me know what you think in the comments if you are amazed with the results as well. Let's see what the second image gave us.  To be honest, this is what I expected from the first image also. Just the astronaut being there, the environment moving around, it's like a panoramic cinematic shot of the astronaut. But as you can see, oh sorry, let me see where it went. I think I lost it. Let me go to my library and there I will find it.  so I found where our video went this is basically the assets folder here you can see all the last created videos and all so let's click on the the first video see if we have it or not so here you will see the video which was generated by using that this image the astronaut looking to the sun right so this is crazy in itself let's we have already seen the second one also let's see the man walking on the street as well  so here is the video of the man walking on the street as you can see the motion is not so smooth not gonna lie but still better than the image after all because you actually have some moving parts so if you show this to someone they will know okay this person in the night walking in the night so  kind of makes sense but if you show the image it might be like candid shot something some action going to happen after this there are 100 possibilities but this makes the message 10x more clear and we don't have to just stop here and create a whole AI generated movie also and by using what just using  each scene from just generate each scene from using chat gpt you can ask chat gpt to generate a let's say we're talking about a movie trailer of a sci-fi movie in space okay so you can ask chat gpt so it will give you scene by scene description you can put that description into mid journey generate those specific scenes and put them into run by ml add some description if you need some movement and generate a video  and at the end when you have let's say 5-7 scenes like some scene can be something like spaceship launching the space then inside the spaceship two astronauts talking to each other then third scene is landing on moon the fourth scene can be astronaut walking out it's just basically the moon landing thing I'm saying but you can add anything you get the idea  So that way you can create all these things and stitch that video by using any sort of basic editor like Canva, Video or even Premiere Pro if you know how to use that. So hope you like this video and you are now able to understand what is the potential of AI by looking at the results that we got in just less than like 5 to 7 minutes it took us to generate a video like this.  So if you can imagine how useful like it, it is not like it's going to replace you. It's going to enhance your workflow. So what will happen is people using AI will be taking the jobs of people not using AI, not like the AI will take your job. The person using AI will take your job. So for example, I was a filmmaker. If I had to present a storyboard to my director or my producer today, if I draw everything by hand, OK, if I didn't even use mid journey,  I wrote everything by hand, added description. It is like a 20 page doc. My writer has to go through all that to approve my project. But another guy showed up with just one folder with 10 images and like the writer just had to flip through it. There is maybe a small text on top of it explaining the scene. And the third guy showed up with a pen drive. He said like, plug this in your laptop and see the trailer of the movie itself.  Who do you think the director will prefer? Considering that also and how much time it will take them to generate all that. If you are given less than two hours, how will you create all that stuff and draw it on paper? It will be definitely rough.  But by using AI only, you can get all the things done in less than two hours and make it actually good result. So the director knows this is not the final movie. I need this as a reference to understand how the movie will turn out to be. Right. After some time, it's going to reach at a stage where you don't even have to actually shoot the video or thing. Maybe you have to shoot it with some other green screen or something and AI will do other things for you.  But for now, this is a really powerful tool for all the people who are into the creative industry or filmmaking industry, any sort of industry, which requires some sort of video capabilities. So I hope you like this video. If you have any doubts, you can ask me in the comments below. Or if you want, you can ask me in the WhatsApp group also. I am an admin. You can search my name, Animesh Mahato. And in case I'm not available, I might not able to respond because I'm on vacation or I'm on off, you can contact me on LinkedIn or Instagram.  So this is my Instagram as you can see AnimeshDesigns and you can contact me here and this is my LinkedIn Animesh Mahato. You can just search my name and this is my profile. So I hope this video was helpful to you and you really are excited for the future of AI. Let me know in the comments and what are you going to create with using this amazing AI tool and I'm going to be back with another amazing video. Till then have a really good day and bye. 

Photoshop AI - 3 hour of photo editing in 30 seconds

 Hello everyone, this is Animesh Mahato back again with another amazing video. Believe me when I say today's video will blow your mind away. Because today we are covering the generative AI feature from Photoshop. Photoshop, being a designer, Photoshop is the software I spend most of my time in to design, to do photo manipulation, to do retouching and 100 different things right.  But the main problem with Photoshop is in the last 10 years, they haven't came up with any revolutionizing features. Let's say maybe two, three years ago, they introduced neural filters. They were good, but not that much like of a use case, right? So, but this generative AI feature is one of the most powerful image AI feature I have ever seen. From this feature, you can do literally hours and hours of work in minutes.  So, without wasting any time, let me show you the magic of this official feature, then you will understand what I'm talking about. So, to start with, let's pick a very beautiful image, you went to maybe a trek or something, you have this image for, you took this image for your Instagram story, but you want to use this as your desktop wallpaper, so you are left with two options.  either to crop it and make it ugly or not even use it or add ugly white background in the background and keep the image as it is. But with the Photoshop's new AI feature, it can literally expand the image by generating the details from the old image. So we have seen something similar from DALI, but that is  Like this Photoshop AI is 100x better than that. So let me show you how this works. So you open Photoshop and this feature is available in the latest version of Photoshop. You don't have to use the beta. It's available in the main version also. And in case you are using the Jack Sparrow version or a pirated version of the Photoshop, I have something for you as well. So don't worry. I'll tell you how to use the feature even if you don't have subscribed to Photoshop or Adobe Cloud.  So, now that we have this image, we want to expand it horizontally. We go to the crop tool. As you can see, various generative expand is already there. So, what I'm going to do is, I'm going to expand it by this much here and by this much here.  So, before clicking enter, here you can see there is a generative bar has been opened. You can cancel this or you can generate it also. So, if you are not able to see this even in the latest version of Photoshop, just go to window and make sure this contextual taskbar has been checked. So, here we are and to expand anything, to add any new details, you don't have to add anything. Just click on generate. Photoshop will figure it out on what to do.  so as you can see tell me if you are not blown away right now this literally generated all the sides with just this center part and this blends perfectly and not only that you get three options every time you generate let's look at the other two and other two are very good also i like the first one so i'm gonna keep it so you can see the before and after this is the before this is the after  perfectly sync perfectly match to make something even close to that it will take a normal person like me an hour or maybe 30 minutes if I'm being very modest because finding the mountain that looks perfectly similar to this is like impossible task even if we spend a lot of time it won't look as genuine as it looks right now it looks like the original image is like this so if you're not blown away yet don't worry I'm gonna show you even a crazier use cases  So here you can see there are two different images which are taken for in completely different setting. We want to merge those two. How do we do it? It's very simple. Select the marquee tool. Okay. Rectangular marquee tool. Select the middle part. And most of the people do this mistake is they only select the white portion. But that won't give you any good results.  So what you have to do is go into the image of it so that it has some data to play with. It will understand, okay, I can use this data and also it will help it blend well. So as you can afford, give space inside the image also. And as I told you to generate new details, we don't have to add anything. Just click on generate. Let's see what it gives. So as you can see, this blended it perfectly. Here you can see the before and after.  And let's see the other options as well. This one is not so good, but it's still believable as there is another waterfall here. This one is also nice. But I really like how the first one came up. So let's keep that. And this is like, if you're not blown away till now, let me show you something even crazy. So,  Here we have a very boring scenery. We have found mountains, we have a lake or a river and we have some boring mountains. Let's add some interesting things to it. Okay, let's make the image interesting. So maybe you want a boat here. So what I'll do is just select the lasso tool and select the portion you want the boat to be in. So I think I made it a little big. So let's make it a bit smaller.  So here we can write sailing boat. Let's wait for it to generate. Let's see what it gives us. So as you can see, it generated a boat which looks perfectly blended with our background. It generated three boats in total. Let's see which one looks the best. I think the first and the third are really good. Let's keep the third one.  okay now that we have some character in the image let's make the sky also a bit nice so what I'm going to do is I'm going to select the whole sky it might be pretty hectic task to select all the trees as you can see there is a lot of trees that is conflicting with the sky there is a trick in Photoshop let me show you how to select the sky in just one click  So, for this, go to the Select panel. Okay, when you click on Select, you can go to the... Okay, first for that, you have to select the image. Okay. Once you have selected, go to Select and then go to Select Sky. Okay. So, this will select the whole sky automatically for you in just one second.  So, as I told you, I need some extra space to blend the things. So, you can do that easily also. Go to Select again, go to Modify and go to Expand. So, this will expand the selection by the number of pixels you have added here. So, 10 pixels is pretty good. As you can see, now it's added. Now, we will add our prompt. So, let's add Dramatic Clouds.  Let's wait for it. Let's see what it didn't generate. Usually takes 30 seconds every time you generate it. So it's not that time consuming also. And it gives pretty good result for the time it takes. So there you can see it added a lot of clouds. Actually, I did not want anything like this. But let's see other options what the generated.  Yeah, this is something that we can work with. And this is even nicer. I like this one more. It looks like rain is around the corner. So as you can see, let me show you the before and after. So this is the before. Pretty standard, boring scenery. This is the after. Lot of more character and you can go crazy with it. You can add anything you want. You can add the sun here. You can add the sunrise. You can even add the northern lights if you want to.  So let's move on to the next use case. And let's say this is a group photo you took with your friend, but you don't want a certain person in the photo. And you can remove that very easily with this generative. Let's say I don't want this lady in this image. So just go here and make a rough selection around the person. Make sure to select everything, including the hair also, so that we can remove it easily.  So here I have selected some extra part of this person's finger. Okay. Now it is there. For this also, as I told you, you don't have to add any prompt for adding extra details. You don't even have to add any prompt for removing someone or something from the image. Photoshop will understand your intentions. Let's click on generate. Let's see how it removes the person. So as you can see,  it removed the person very easily and to be honest it looks like this was photoshopped and this is the original image like it's grey here the other okay this one is perfect just perfect here you can see before and after so it's it's insane like now you can remove people from the photo in post-production in just 30 seconds not even a lot of headache right  So, now that you know how to remove people from the images, let's go to the next use case. So, let's say this is your uncivilized friend. You have asked him to get his life together and get to a job interview, but the only image he has to apply for the job is this one. You have to work with it. So, let's make this professional, okay? First, let's put him in a suit so that he looks a bit professional.  So now that we have a rough selection around him, just click on Generative Fill again. And this time, add slope. So one amazing thing with Photoshop's AI is, the smaller prompts you add, the better result it gets. For some reason, I have experimented with larger, more description-based prompt, but it gives as good as, if not better results, with shorter prompts.  So keep that trick in your mind that try with smaller form if the bigger one is not giving you good results. So as you can see, I don't think I have to say anything. This is just okay. This is even better. And this is just perfect.  tell me this is the 6th person as this and but there is a problem I think the ice cream is still on his face let's see if we can remove that also with this generative fill we're gonna make a rough selection around his face and as usual don't have to add anything if you want to remove something photoshop will understand what you want to do  So, as you can see, it generated the image. The first one, the bottom teeth are a bit messed up. Let's see the other results. So, yeah, this one is perfect. So, just for context, let me show you the before and after. So, here is the before, here is the after.  So now you can know like if this is really impressive for me because we can literally use any image and make it a professional photo, like a professional photo shoot, right? So let's move on to our next use case. Let's say this is your friend wants to be a bodybuilder but does not want to go to gym, okay? But it's not a problem anymore because thanks to Adobe AI, he can be lazy and still be a bodybuilder.  So, to make him into a bodybuilder, we're going to make another rough selection of it. Make sure one thing, because the muscles will be bigger than what his actual structure looks like now, we're going to select a bit extra. So, as you can see, there will be the muscles, so I'm selecting a bit extra here. But his t-shirt is oversized, so it's not an issue how much we select of his body.  Just make sure to account for the muscles. So we have a rough selection here. Let's go to generative fill again. At this time, let's add muscular and let's see what it generates. So as you can see, the muscles are just perfect, right? The way it added the muscle, let's see the other two versions also.  These two are good, but the headphones are a bit funky. You can get, I think, a better if you just refine those two also. Overall, as you can see, it also matched the skin tone plus also matched the body structure overall. Just added some muscles as we wanted. So now, let's move on to the next use case, which is even more crazier than this. So let's say you have a bald friend. He always says that hair transplant are too expensive.  But now you have a solution for him. Just bring his image in Photoshop. Very simple. Just make a selection of his head how he wants the hair to be.  Okay, now just add flowing hair. You can also specify the hair color or if certain type of hair you want curly hair, straight hair, whatever. If there's some certain selection that your friend wants, you can add that also. So as you can see, this time the result is actually nice. So let me move this part away. So this is the first one.  I think the first one looks the best, right? So let's see the before and after, and this is the before, this is the after. So I think your friend will love it. You can change the hair color, obviously, it's not a big deal. You can specify black, brown, whatever hair color you want at the start. So now let's move on to our next use case. So here you can see there is this man's image, okay?  who is standing in nowhere, middle of nowhere on a log. I want to transport him to somewhere more interesting, maybe a mountain valley. Right, so it's very simple to do that. You just have to go and select this quick selection tool, then click on select subject. We'll basically select whatever the main subject of the image is. He's standing on a log, so we want to select that also. So we're gonna make a rough selection of that as well.  But for that, you just have to drag it on, that's all. It's not a thing. And if you have selected extra, just click and hold on Alt, and it will erase also. So I think this is pretty good, isn't it? Now that we have our selection made, but remember one thing, we don't want to change the person. We want to change the background.  So we have to do one more step, that is to CTRL-Shift-N-I. If you are on a Mac, CMD-Shift-N-I, it will invert the selection, it will select the background of it. Now, we're gonna generate the fill, and we're gonna add Mountain Valley. Once added, let's see what it generates for us.  so this is our result as you can see the this is just insane that the accuracy of how it match the color and everything from the background and the foreground it's just amazing let's see the other two variations also okay this is also nice but this looks a little fake to be honest  And this is also I think the first image itself. Okay, it's a bit different, but I really like the first one. So let's keep this one. So now you know how to transform the background of your images and make them more interesting. So let's go to the next use case.  So, this one is for the ladies. Let's say you want to give someone a pearl necklace. You don't want to ruin their supplies by taking them to the shop, trying it on them, right? So, we're gonna try the pearl necklace or any other kind of jewelry in Photoshop itself. Let me show you how to do that thing. So, we're gonna make a rough selection around her neck in the shape we want the jewelry to be. So, let's make a rough selection here.  So once we have the rough selection, we're going to click on Generate and simply add Burn Necklace. So as you can see, the result that has been generated is insanely accurate. Like, this is how it will actually look in the real life if she tries on her necklace. Because as you can see, the hair and all are also overlapping on top of it. Let's see the other two versions that it generated for us.  So I think this it tried to make a more thinner bead necklace. This one I think I like better because this looks small. They are small beads. So let's keep this one. But it still looks a bit off, right? We are gifting someone a necklace. Let's give them some earrings also. So let's try out some earrings. We will make a rough selection around her ears.  Okay, so to make some selection in multiple places at once, you just have to click and hold the shift key, and you will see a plus on your cursor. Now you can make multiple selection at once. So now that both of them are selected, I would say don't generate single-handedly because both areas will look different. Here I'm gonna add Pearl Earrings.  So let's have a look at what it generated for the pearl earrings. So this, let me remove this part. So this is the first one. This is second. It's a bit messed up because both of them are on the right side. I think this one is good, but I really like the first one. So let's keep this one as it is. So let me show you the before and after of how it turned out to be.  So this is the before, okay. No jewelry, nothing. And this is the after. So I hope this helps the ladies also. You can post on your social media with any kind of jewelry that you want by using this AI feature. Let's get to the next use case. So if you're not impressed till now, let me show you something which will definitely blow your mind away.  This time we are gonna create a MrBeast style thumbnails from a blank space. Okay, nothing just AI. So first, we would need some grass. So we need to select this much portion of it. We're gonna add tall grass land. So our grass has been generated. Let's add the background also.  As I told you, always have some extra selections so that it blends well. The background, let's add maybe sky with mountains. So here we have some mountains also. First one, it seems to be the best. Okay. Now let's add a hut here.  So this is a hut. Let's see a few options. This one is good. Let's keep this one. Let's add Mr. Beast image because we can't generate that with AI. So let's add my Mr. Beast image. So we have this image from one of his thumbnails. I'm gonna separate him from the background.  it's very simple just click on the quick selection tool and select subject to make accurate selection and just select him now that we have him here let's increase the size okay let's add some shadow in the background here we have shadow also and maybe let's add  Now we have the text also, we add it. So we have the text ready, let's add a circle also. So here we have our MrBeast style thumbnail in less than like five minutes. Everything generated from AI, right?  the background, the foreground, even the mountains and everything, even the subject, the hut is generated from AI. So hopefully this tutorial was like a mind swing thing for you. If you found this interesting, let me know in the comments. And now it's the part for the people who can't use Photoshop  this feature because they're using the pirated version so let me show you how to use all these features without the photoshop subscription so this is called adobe firefly and the url is adobe.com slash sensei slash generated film slash firefly so you just have to search adobe firefly and you will get this page and also add a link in the bottom so you can reach here  So, here you can see, it has all the features that I showed you, text to image, generative fill and everything. And just click on Get Firefly Book Deep, and you have to probably create Adobe account, which is completely free.  And then just start generating your uploaded images and do all the things that I explained to you in the same way here also. So now hopefully you found this tutorial helpful and let me know in the comments if you enjoyed today's video. If you have any doubts, you can ask me in the comments also. And if you can also ask me in the group, I'm an admin, Animesh Martha, you can search my name.  In case I'm not available, maybe I'm on a vacation, I'm not able to respond, you can contact me on LinkedIn or Instagram. So this is my Instagram, Animesh Designs, and this is my LinkedIn account, Animesh Madho, and you can search my name there, and you can contact me if I'm not able to respond just in case. So hopefully you found today's tutorial helpful, and let me know in the comments what you think of this feature.  And according to Adobe, this is just the early stage. We are going to go even crazier within this. So if this is the early, I don't know what is like, maybe they will even do the whole text editing part from also Gentrifil. Let's see what's coming in the future. Hopefully enjoy today's video. I'll be back again with another amazing video, very amazing video, very amazing video. 

