AI-Enhanced Excel Mastery

Intro to the Course

 Hi everyone, this is Animesh Mahato and welcome to a brand new course AI Enhanced Excel Mastery  So if you have been around the corporate world or any kind of job in the last few years, Excel would have been a crucial part of your job, if not a lot important, right? Most people use Excel either in their office work, their taxes or some day to day work to keep track of things or make certain calculations, right? But the problem is most people are still using Excel in the  old school way. So the aim for this course is to make you an Excel wizard by using AI so that you don't have to remember formulas, you don't have to keep them written down somewhere and a lot of inbuilt Excel features are also there which have been there for the last couple of years  everything and don't worry we have divided the course into three modules based on your use case you can only consider to watch the specific ones. So let me just show you what's the breakdown of the course. So in the course structure first we have Excel foundation mastering the basics this is something anyone can watch and all  Next one is Excel mastery techniques for professional. This is a little bit advanced. So once you finish the Excel foundation, you can choose to watch this. If your use case extends after that, or if you think that this much Excel is good enough to get me by through my day, then you can decide to stop at Excel foundation. So the Excel foundation section is like the base for 90% of the people out there who are going to use Excel only like five  10% of their time. So this one should get you by most of your use cases. But if you want to learn a bit extra to get ahead of other people, I would really recommend do the Excel mastery as well. So in this we're going to teach specific techniques for your profession or other things which you might still  doing  people who want to do data analysis and deal with large sets of data every day plus also want to use macros in the Excel as well. So we're going to go over everything. So this is like an introduction video for you guys so that you are prepared and you have the right mindset throughout the course so that you don't feel overwhelmed and based on your use case or your capability  is you only have to watch the specific level of course. If you don't need the elite course, you can completely ignore it. Most people are not gonna use macros ever in Excel. So you can choose to ignore it, but foundation and mastery are something most people can benefit from. So that's it for me for this video. And without wasting any more time, let's get started with the course. 

Intro to Excel Foundations

 Hi guys, welcome to the Excel Foundation course. In this course, we are going to talk about two main heads. First is inbuilt Excel AI features, something which is inside of Excel.  maybe from six months ago or two years ago, whatever AI features that are already natively present in Excel, we're gonna talk about that in the inbuilt Excel AI features. And in the second part, we're gonna be leveraging chat GPT for Excel so that we can create formulas and do a lot of things much, much faster than if you would have typed it on your own or done it by your own. So without wasting any more time, let's get started. 

Intro to Excel Foundations

 Hi everyone, welcome back. In this video, we're gonna cover the first tool called Flash Fill from the inbuilt Excel and AI features. So, to use this feature, you can use both the online Excel or the offline app also. I'm gonna use the Excel online version just to make it user-friendly for me to switch tabs and just show you.  things around and then come back to the slides but you can always use the excel app also things work exactly the same or there is only one feature which uses the online capability mode so which cannot be used in the offline one but I'll let you know which one that is either in the video or in the description that this function only works in the online version or this function only works in the offline version  By functions I mean features and all of them, 90% of them work in both online and the app also. So, here I have an excel sheet open in front of me where you can see there is a table with name, first name and initials. Okay. So, in the name you will see there is a full name and say I want to extract the initials of all of them and I don't want to write all of them. So, what I'll do is I'll just gonna write for the first one  so once I'm done I'm just going to hit enter then what I'm going to do is I'm going to hold this and drag it again nothing happened I just copy pasted my name but that's not what we want don't worry here you will see a small drop down just click on that and click on flash fill and like magic everything just updated Rishi Avinash, Avinash, Mark, Mark, Sundar, Sundar, Drew, Drew  So this is pretty good but what about if we want to add initials. This will require a bit more computing as we are taking both the letters using the first or both of them to create the initial. So what I am going to do is I am just going to write my initials first and similarly instead of just dragging it there you can just hit command E or control E if you are on windows if you are on mac command E and then it will flash fill everything.  like this if you see all the initials have been filled so this technique doesn't only work with names you can use even dates or any kind of data type as long as the excel can understand what you're trying to do based off of your actions it can like get the job done  Okay and one more thing, sometimes like if you need, you don't have to do the first by first. Let's say I do mark train first and I just hit command E, it will still work. Even if it's in the middle, it will still populate the one, the top and the bottom. So that's pretty handy. And that's it for the flash fill. Let's move on to the next video. We're going to discuss formula by example. 

Intro to Excel Foundations

 Hi everyone. So in this video, we're going to discuss about formula by example. So before we start it, we just wanted to clear. Why do we even need this when we have flash bill already with us, right? So these two are very similar, but there's one very key difference that makes formula by example, way, way better than flash. Let me just show you.  So, for example, if I go to the previous sheet where I have filled the data using FlashFill, the problem here is the data is not mutable. So, by mutable I mean the data does not update based on these values. So, for example, if I change Mark2 and to maybe something like Devin  it won't update these two fields, right? Because these are made with FlashFill, meaning FlashFill, whenever, whatever data is there, FlashFill will use that data as a reference and paste the values. What if we want formulas which automatically update, but you don't wanna write formulas, right? So I have this exact feature just for that use case.  Let me just show you. So first, I'm just going to delete whatever data we have. So, like in FlashView, we used to add only one value. In the formula by example, we might need more than one example. So let me just write down some examples for the AI to figure out what kind of formula that we need.  When I added my and Abhinav's name and the third value, it suggested me fill the cell with this formula. We have created a formula that splits the name by space and takes the first segment. So, if you are interested, you can even see the formula that text before table, at name. At name is nothing but it's referencing the table header.  and then 1 so the first it will basically split the table header into two parts and then use the first one as the value for there you don't have to understand the formula if you see that the results are alright you can just hit apply and you should be good to go so if you see we have updated and the thing I promised it will update with whatever changes you make so if it's whatever you change it doesn't matter it will automatically update there  Initials is a bit complex, right. You need to take both of them, extract the first letter and join them. So doing that with a formula is a bit more complex instead of just understanding and writing it as it is. Let's see how the AI does in this case. I'm gonna write this one, this one as blank.  So, it took a lot, one more data entry because I'll tell you the reason also. I added AM for both of the first pills. So, it might have thought, okay, maybe it's the same thing and sort of copy-paste all over again, but when I wrote MT, it understood the pattern and suggested me the formula.  So, let's see the formula. Okay. Similarly, it's just taking the first name and then taking the name and it's using the first name's first letter and dividing the second one in two parts and referencing the second data point and joining them together. So, as I said, you don't have to understand this formula, at least for now, and just apply it. And whatever changes you make, let's say, you make something like Mark Zuckerberg  something. It's just gonna update to mz. So, like this you can change anything you want and the formulas will keep updating the values. So, I hope this video was helpful. Let's move on to the next one. 

Intro to Excel Foundations

 Hi everyone and in this video we're going to cover analyzed data from excel. So let's have a look at this AI feature. Say you have a very huge data set something like this. This is like a data set of online orders and stuff. So if you see this data set has 10,000 columns.  Okay, so 10,000 rows. So, if you just try to analyze it by your own or do some things, it will take quite a huge amount of time. So, to avoid that, Excel already provides us with data analysis. For example, let me just show you what I mean. So, let's say you want to analyze this whole data.  You will be probably in the Home tab. You have to go to the Data tab. In here, you will see something like Analyze Data. This one. If you click on this, it will automatically detect the table for you.  and suggest you few data analysis by itself. For example, if you see total sales by payment type and sales channel. So, this is showing how many payments are we getting from credit cards, bank transfer, PayPal, like this.  Then total sale by payment type, again the same thing. Then unit price by customer segment and sales channel. How many sales are we getting online, how many getting retail and how many in the wholesale. That too divided into three columns itself.  Then we have unit price related to a cross product type. So let's say you want to see all of the results, you just click on the drop down here. It's a frequency quantity, frequency by total sale, all this kind of stuff. For example, I'm interested into this and unit price by customer segment and sales channel. I'm just going to click on insert pivot chart and it's going to create a new worksheet where it's going to create a pivot table and based off of which we have this chart.  So, you can ask it questions on your own also. So, let's go back there. Say, you want to know how many sales are we getting in store versus online. Okay. Or you can also say something like which product, a category or product type is giving the highest sales. So, let's just search that.  top five and yeah, use quotes whenever you are writing this column names. So it's easier for Excel to understand what you're talking about. Top five product type based on based on total sale. Okay. So let's see what we get.  If you see home goods as the highest, then we have healthcare, then we have a barrel groceries, electronics. So all of them are pretty similar. Let's say instead of top five, I want top 10. Then the data will be more variable. Let's just add this pivot table here.  you see we got the top 10 but I think we only have the 5 top 5 here but you can change this pivot table by your own to make it like so that you get the top 5 top 10 sorry apart from this you can also do something like this for example all the products which has shipping cost over 20 $20 or something so you can just add here we have this let's insert this pivot table  and you can see shipping cost greater than 50 by product type, home goods, apparels, electronics and looting. So like this you can analyze very huge data sets by just using this analyze data thing but there can be some instances where you ask too complex kind of a question for example a product which has highest like sales but the lowest  shipping cost this and that in those cases it might start hallucinating and won't give you the good answer it might give you a wrong answer like for example that we did for the top 10 categories probably i think there are only five categories that's why it is showing that maybe there are 10 and it is not able to detect them so this feature is like a quick fix so if you want instant data and it's not that complex of an analysis you can instantly get this from  using the inbuilt feature of data analysis but if it's very complex then I recommend using chat gpt for this data analysis which I'm gonna talk about later in the same course so stay tuned for that and let's move on to the next video 

Excel Labs

Hi guys. So in this video, we're going to discuss about the Excel Labs. This is something which is very, very interesting and it has a very wide use case. So let's get into it. First, we're going to open the sheet and I have copied the same example as the Flash Fill one. So here we have the name. We have the first name in the initials. Apart from Flash Fill formula by example,  There is something called Excel Labs, which is like an add-on that you can install in Excel to get chat GPT inside of your Excel itself. So how do you do that? First, you will see here on the right side, I have this Excel Labs. You might not see this when you open your default Excel. So you need to install that and click on Add-ins. Make sure you're in the Home tab.  Click on the add-ins, go to more add-ins, and here, search Excel Labs. The first one you need to click on add. Once you add this, you have to set it up. To set up, you have to get an API key from ChatGPT. So first, basically, you have to go to Generative Labs function. You have to open this.  and configure API key. So to get API key, you can just go to playground.openai.com. I think that's the URL, not sure. Yeah, that's the correct URL. So you need to sign in with your OpenAI ID. Then you have to go to this part, API keys. In here, you have to  like this which starts with SK dash. This one you have to paste it in here inside of Excel apps. Once you paste it in here, you have to select what model you're going to use. So I've selected ChatGPT 4 but you can select ChatGPT 3 3.5 also for lesser cost and faster results. So you can go and click on ChatGPT 3.4. For example, you don't need that complex of data analysis. Here are some like just  you can make. These things you will, I have already created a course on this. So if you go to the Freedom of the App blueprint, there will be something called, like I think understanding charge up to playground or something. If you open that, you will see what all these parameters do exactly everything in detail. So I'm just going to keep it as default. I'm going to save the settings.  Once you have this saved, to use this, you have to use this formula. So let's say I want to get the first name of everyone. So I'm just gonna click on equals, then generative, sorry, labs.generative.ai. Okay, here you have to write down your prompt. So I'm just gonna write down, and yeah, one thing is there, the prompt should be inside of quotations. So I'm just gonna write, return,  the first name from the full name with no leading text. Okay so I've just said I'm just gonna give you a full name  the first name of it and make sure to not add any extra text after it. Then, the chargeability model does not have access to the full sheet. So, you have to give it access to that specific cell also. So, what I'm going to do is, I'm going to, after this, I'm just going to add an AND  Then I'm going to click on here, the cell I want to pass. Once all this is done, I'm just going to click enter. And just to take a few seconds, it's going to process the chat GPT and it's going to create this. So instantly, and the best part is it is still mutable. So I can change it to anything. For example, maybe Dan Co. Then it will reiterate it and it will update it to Dan.  If you see, you are ready to dab. And it might not automatically fill all of those rows, so you can just drag it like I showed you in the last videos, Flash Fill and all. The Flash Fill is already applied in this one, so it is automatically adding all those.  Now initials is a bit complex, right? You have also seen the formula, how complex getting initials is. So let's see if chatgpd is able to get the initials of it. So similarly, I'm just going to write equals labs.generativeai. Then I'm going to add the prompt.  Sorry, so I'm just going to add the pound. Next, you're going to add a hand here. I'm just going to select this. I think that's it. Let's just click enter. And let's just see do its magic.  See, it detected the initials properly as well. Apart from doing small things like this, you can create whole data sets in this, like using this Excel labs. For example, I want the data of all Indian states. So I'm just going to write here, equals labs.generativeAI. Okay. And here I'm going to add a prompt of, sorry, give me  list of all indian states here are some functions that you need to use in order to make it work so all the list in a comma separated line okay separated line so like this it's gonna just give us a list of all indian states let's see the results  It's going to take some time because more data is being generated. You see, we have a list of all Indian states. Now we want it to be in top to bottom kind of a situation, right? So first we'll show you the way to add it like one state per row. So how are you going to do that is split text function.  text split function and at the end you have to add a delimiter what is a delimiter basically you need to tell the function what is the thing that you need to look for in order to break two words for example Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra if you see there has a comma in between comma is our delimiter  So I'm just going to add a comma. After this I'm going to add a delimiter. And delimiter needs to be inside columns. So quotation marks. So after adding this, I'm just going to close this. So if you see, it split the text in each cell. Now each cell has exactly one state. Correct. Now let's say you want to arrange it in top to bottom.  So how are we gonna do that? We're gonna add, wrap this whole thing in another function. So the formula is called transpose. So we're gonna just add transpose here. I'm just gonna make sure to add a closing parenthesis at the end and click enter. See, we have a proper arranged list with all the states. I think it gave it in alphabetical order also. So that's the best thing.  now on top of this you can do all the other commands for example if you want to take initials of each state you want to add a description about each state that all you can do so let's say i want to create like a small two line description about each state of india so i'm just going to write the same thing labs.generativeai i'm just going to write give me a small two line  description about this Indian state okay and after this I'm just gonna add an and  And we gonna select the state. Make sure to not select the whole thing. We gonna select one and then gonna flash fill the rest of it. So let's click on it. See Andhra Pradesh is the state of South Indian, South East, South Eastern India known for its rich cultural heritage and historical significance. So we have a nice description about it. We wanted the same thing for all the states. So we just gonna  Drag it to the bottom and you will receive one description for each state. So I think it's pretty handy Like this you can do anything like anything that chat GPT can do can do it For example, you want the literacy rate of each state that also you can get from the data. Let's say you want  how much is like weather in each state all that you can get one tip here is don't try to get all the data in one go like give me all the Indian states their weather a description about that that time it will mess up it won't give you proper result  So just generate the first row and based off of that, keep using this generative AI. What this will do is, number one, it's gonna save time. How? Because each generation is a small generation. If you see, we are only generating the name here, one name, one name here, a description here like this.  Let's say description and everything was about to generate in one go, then if you want to change anything, it will take a lot of more time and a lot more cost to your API also. So, yeah, all this you're doing is being built to your OpenAI account. But don't worry, it will be a couple of cents, like one or two rupees or something, that whatever I did right now. And because we're using ChargePT 3.5, it was four, it would be maybe 10, 20 rupees or something, because that one is expensive.  So that's it for Excel lab. This is one of the most interesting plugins. So I would like you to check it out yourself, see how it works and give me like what is like the one use case that you unlocked in Excel by using this tool. So let's move on to the next video. 

Leveraging ChatGPT for Excel Intro

 Hi everyone. So first of all, congratulations on finishing the first part of the Excel foundation. This is the second part. So this is just a small introduction video about what we are exactly going to cover in this part of the course. So in this one, we're going to be leveraging ChatGPT for Excel. So we're going to be using ChatGPT on the side with Excel open so that we can do small, small things or advanced things also.  by leveraging the power of chatgift. Why we are doing this? Even if we have Excel labs on our sheet, the reason we are doing this is because not everyone has Excel 365 or Excel 2019 plus, Microsoft Office 2019 plus. So they can't use Excel lab in their worksheet. So that is the one reason. Another reason being some more complex things which require higher end intelligence and more  control over the data cannot be done through automatic things like Excel apps or anything. For that we need to have higher level of control by which I mean you are just asking chatgpt about help. Chatgpt is helping you out with your workflow and you are speeding it up by  So this is how we are going to approach this course. First, we are going to create a small like function or formula to create a sum of the values in the same sheet and in the different sheet. So we are going to explain about our sheet in chat jpta. It's going to give us a formula. We are going to see if it's accurate or not. If it's not, how we can  from start to finish in this video. Next, we're going to go to using chart GPT with Excel tables. Number one is summing table columns. Number two is summing a column, but the column name is referenced in the cell and creating notes. Like this might sound like a mouthful of words, but this will all make sense while we are in the video.  Then we have a small practice exercise. Then we have cleaning the data from a PDF or an image to create a CSV file. This is one of the most used approaches, I would say, I personally use in Excel. A lot of times I have the data in some sort of image or some sort of format, which is not a CSV or Excel format that I can  change or edit. So I just give it to ChatGPT, give it a right prompt and it gives me the raw file, the CSV file that I can manipulate. Next, we have uploading Excel file to ChatGPT to transform your data.  Lastly, we have another practice exercise so that you can practice all the things which are in the course so far. So I hope you're excited for this part of the course, which is a bit more advanced, but a lot more useful in general for everyone. So without wasting any more time, let's get started. 

Getting Sum Value formulas from ChatGPT

 Hi guys, so it's me back again. So in this video, we're going to cover how do we create a sum of values in the same shape plus in a different sheet. So let's just ask chatGPT how do we do it. First, let's see the data set that we have. So we have like a sales data of a country, zone and product like based which we have items sold and we have a revenue column.  So let's say we want to create a total sum of how much revenue we made over this year. Okay. So I'm just going to open chat. Then I'm going to ask it a very simple question. Let's just first give it a master prompt so that  we can like ask it Excel questions going forward. So I've just made a very small prompt, which is basically saying act as a Microsoft Excel expert with 10 plus years of experience in data science and data analysis. So let's just send it first.  So this will get chatGPT ready for what we're about to ask it. It is a small and like very easy question. So it does not necessarily need it to be how this kind of conditioning at first, but it's good to have so that we get clear concise results and with less attempts.  So, what basically we want is a summation of all the values from G4 to G13. That's what we are going to ask it. So, if you are confused what is G4 and G13, G is basically the column name and 4 is the row name. If you highlight any of the cell, one of these like on this side and one on this side will be highlighted. You see G8 is highlighted on this box.  if you don't want to do that much on the top left you will see we have the column name as sorry the cell name as well so we want g4 to g13 summation just gonna write write an excel formula to sum the values from g4 to g13  So if you see, we got the formula. Let's try it out. So let's maybe add heading here. Then we're going to add the formula.  center it. If you see a hash like this it's like it has like it needs to be wider and it does not have enough space. So you can just double click on this part and it will expand itself to whatever space is needed. So if you see we have the total of this. If you even highlight the formula you can see we are summing up all these  basically terms so this is summation in the same sheet we can also say do summation on a different sheet so let's just go to a new sheet first I'm going to show you what the formula would actually look like so like how would manually you would add it so I'm just going to add a sum then I'm going to go to this sheet and we're going to select this whole thing  Okay. And we're going to close this and click on enter. Same thing here. You have to just expand this and we have the same value on the different sheet. So what we basically did is this is like a table. Okay. So if you don't know what is the difference between table and a normal data structure, you just basically, let's say I want to create a data of something similar country zone,  say France, Europe. So although this might look similar to this, it is not a table. So you might ask what is the difference between a table and this kind of structure. The difference is in a table, you can reference this whole row with whatever is written here.  So, if you see the formula, we did not specify any range. We said SUMTABLE3 equals revenue and the revenue is the name of this column. So, even if we add more data here, say we add another data point, 2000 here. Okay, it's going to increase this by 2000.  So because we are using this as a table format, we can reference it by this. Whereas this one is not increasing. You see the value where the value in this one is. Okay. It won't copy it like this. I'm just going to paste the value instead.  So you see, yeah. Okay. This automatically expanded, but usually what will happen, it will stay like this if it wasn't a table. So it's gonna decrease. It will have a lesser value by 7.56 million or something. Thousand hundred thousand.  So, here we have 7.58, here we have 7.56. So, the main difference is by using a table and by using a normal structure like this is you cannot reference the column by the name. But if you ask, how do we achieve this? How do we achieve this kind of structure? And I would like the sign that it is a table is given by this small arrow at the end, meaning this is a table.  So, to convert anything into a table, it's very simple. Don't have to do anything, just select whatever you want to create in a table. Select all of it. Go to Insert, click on Table. It's going to ask you, this is the range that you want and click on OK.  Once you click OK, something like this will come up. If you want, you can hide these filter buttons and this is our table. So, instead of referencing this, I can just reference column 2 and automatically detect, OK, this is a table. So, now let's generate this formula that we wrote by ourself using chart sheet. So, we're going to ask it very simply.  So I'll just simply added it. Give me a formula to sum the values of a column revenue. So see it got and gave me the same formula. See here.  But only one issue is it did not reference the correct table name, which it's my fault. I did not reference it. To know the table name, just click on the table and it's going to go to the, if you go on table design, you will see here we have the table name. Instead of table 3, I'm just going to maybe write something like sales data. Okay. Now let's just go there and edit our first prompt.  So some of the values of the column, revenue in the table sales data. Now, I think it should probably work. Let's try it out. And let's go to this. Now here, we're going to paste it and see it automatically worked. This is the formula we are using. And this is the data we are getting.  So like this, you can create formulas on different pages also by referencing the table column and table name. So that's why we use table. And number two, that's how we do simple formulas using chatjpt. So I just realized that I've covered both this point in the same video, summing up table column and summing up a column, but the column name is a reference in a cell.  and creating notes. So creating notes, I'm just going to cover now. So basically this mean like the column name, I just showed you that revenue column name, we referenced it to create a submission, right? And adding a note is very helpful. It's like adding comments when you're coding.  So, for to add a note, it's very simple. Say, I want to tell that this is the value of all the data from the table from a previous slide, previous sheet. So, I'm going to right click, I'm going to click on new note and here I'm just going to write  that this is the total. So, this is a very simple concept. Anyone who hovers on this can see the note. So, with that we are summing up this video and let's move on to the next one. 

Cleaning Data from PDF or Image to create a CSV

 Hi guys, welcome back. So in this video, we're going to be cleaning data from a PDF or image to create a CSV file through ChatGPT. So let's see how it's done. First, we go to ChatGPT and we import the image that we want to extract the data from. So this is a small screenshot of an Excel data set, which is in image format and not as a raw file or CSV file that we can edit.  So, what will happen in most cases is, you will have to manually enter this data in your Excel. And Excel has a mobile app which you can scan things and just import it. But I've tried it, it's not 100% accurate. Like, it has way less accuracy than ChatGPT. So just upload the image on ChatGPT and once it's uploaded, the image is something like this, basically. Once the image is uploaded, just say to ChatGPT, extract the data from this image and give me a CSV file.  Let's see how it does. So now if you see, ChatGPT has generated a response and a CSV file as well. So let's have a look at how the CSV file looks.  So if you see, the data is almost 100% accurate. So all the data with all the country columns and everything are properly extracted. Right, so I'm just gonna copy this and I'm gonna paste it in the sheet that we are working on so that we can analyze it in a better way.  So if you see, all the data has been extracted properly. If you want, let me just open the image side by side so that we can compare. So this is the original image. If you see the data points, the headers are on point, country name, literacy rate, GDP per capita. All of the headers are correct. Even the values which didn't have any values, which has any, are also extracted properly, and the data is also very accurate.  so there is no shortcoming just the thing is we need to make it a table and then we are good to go so i'm just going to go to insert and create a table okay table is done and i'm just going to format it in a nice way so that  And this is how your table will look like. So like this, you can extract data from PDFs, from image files and everything, anything which you do not have a raw data format, you can extract it and create a CSV file of it and then copy the data into Excel.  So there are two ways, you can either open that CSV file in your laptop or your computer, copy paste the things or you can just go here and go here file and open and then upload the CSV file here. That will again do the same thing for you. So let's conclude this video over here and let's move on to the next one. 

Cleaning Data from PDF or Image to create a CSV

 Hi everyone, so this video is going to be the last video of the Excel Foundation course. More specifically, the last video of the leveraging ChatGPT for Excel. In this video, we're going to learn how we will upload a file to ChatGPT and ask it to do the transformation that we need. So let's get started. So in here, we have ChatGPT open. I have a data set. Let me just show you.  So if you see here, we have a data set where we have reference ID, date, description, and debit and credit. This is like a log book of an office where you have debits and credits of whatever things coming in and going. So the first transformation that I would like to have is tidying up these two columns. We don't necessarily need a debit credit column. We can just have it in the same column.  and the debit ones can be just having that minus the amount that much got debited so that can be one thing other thing can be let's say i want to change the formatting update instead of dd mm yy we can do mm yy mm dd yy  meaning we have the date, month, and year. You can make it something like month, date, and year just for the example purpose. So let's just upload this file to chatjupyter. Once uploaded, the prompt that we give is very important. Let me explain each and every part of this prompt in detail so that you can replicate it as per your convenience. So first, we give chatjupyter a bit of context that here's a CSV file. Please tidy it up and produce a new file.  What is the new CSV file? So we give it an action at the first line that I need a new CSV file and by tidying up this one. And how to tidy up is the next lines. So keep the reference and description column as they are, don't change them and change the date column formatting from DDMMYY to MMDDYY. As I said earlier, then merge both credit and debit into one column, but with debit records having  this is one of the most important and the huge time-saving hack. Provide the first five scrolls on screen for me to verify the results. So this is a small example, right? We have hardly 10 columns, but 10 rows. So, but what will happen if there are a thousand, not even thousand, what if there are 10,000? It will just give you CSV file. You will open it. You will see, okay, it's not done because you know, I know, chat GPT tends to hallucinate  when we don't give a good prompt at the start. So you will be just stuck in downloading CSV files and checking it again and again, the transformation done or not correctly. Instead of that, you can just simply do one thing, just do this like hack where you ask Chargibit to give you the first five results on screen. You can verify, okay, this is correct. We can move forward. Then it will give you the CSV file.  So let's run this thing and let's see what we get. So now that you see the result that we have, we got a completely new table with the adjustment that we asked for. Reference 1 is untouched as we said. Date 1 has been formatted. By this you can verify that 17 means it must be the date and here is the month.  then we have a description it kept it as it is and at the end we have negative values in front of the ones which are like debit and the positive ones which are credit so now that we think okay the file is good we can just click on this i'll provide you the sorry i provided csv file we need to ask it for the csv file now okay good to go please give me the csv file  Okay, so now it will just create the CSV file and give me a download link like this. Let's see if the CSV file is on point or not. Yeah, I think it's pretty good. We have the CSV file right here and everything looks good.  So like this, you can make small, small adjustment so that you don't have to do all this stuff in Excel. You can just simply upload this thing on chat GPT, ask it to do whatever you need. And at the end, just ask it to export the file as a CSV, and you can easily import this into Excel for any kind  of sheet, even Google Sheets or any other thing, because Google Sheets follows completely different rules, most of the rules, and some things are of course the same, but if you are facing issues like this, that some formulas are not working, some plugins are not available in Google Sheets, simply export the CSV file, do the transformations in ChatGPD, import it back in Google Sheets Excel, so that you get the same workflow with all the softwares possible.  isn't that powerful. So with that I conclude this part of the course and let's move on to the next one which is about Excel Mastery. 

EXCEL MASTERY TECHNIQUES FOR PROFESSIONALS_Cleaning Data from PDF or Image to create a CSV

Hi everyone, first of all congratulations on successfully completing the first part of the course. Now we are entering into the excel mastery techniques for professional module. In this module you are going to learn something more than the basic and  not too advanced that you don't use it ever in your life so this is going to be the one of the most crucial part of the courses which has the highest quality of like data or data points or value but with a little bit of technical knowledge that is needed which if you have watched the last course or know a little bit about excel you can easily pull through with it if not you can always comment below or just ask in the group we are always here to help you out so  Let's get started. So this course is divided into further specific function based videos. First, we're going to cover the VLOOKUP example. Then we're going to go to range lookup with image. Then we're going to do advanced formulas. Then we're going to ask ChatGPT to explain complex formula to us because self-learning through ChatGPT is the fastest way out there because  You might have faced a bit of headache whenever you're looking to educate yourself about a specific formula or specific thing, right? You might be trying to find a good YouTube video, a good article, but it is very difficult. So you can just ask ChatGPT for explaining you exactly the formula you gave it to him. So it can be something ChatGPT generated or it can be something that you got it from a friend or from a file that you are not able to understand. Just paste in ChatGPT and it will explain you.  like a five-year-old easily and how you can use this formula in your day-to-day use. Then, we're going to be uploading files to ChatGPT to analyze a formula of a cell. Then, we're going to be debugging cell formulas and then we're going to be improving existing cell formulas and at the end, there will be a practice exercise to sum all of this up and make you revise everything in one go. So, I hope you're excited for this part of the course and let's get started. 

Vlookup Example

 Hi everyone, welcome back. So, in the first video of this Excel Mastery module, we are going to cover VLOOKUPs. How do we create a VLOOKUP formula by using ChatGPT? If you don't already know what VLOOKUP is, I'm just going to show you a small example. If you see, we have a table with employee data. Okay. We have three columns.  same page only we need the data of three specific employees so if you see this is the ID probably of the second employee and this would be the ID of the last second so like this we have a jumbled up requirement of two three employee list and we want their names so to get the data by one  column, a whole row and find the data value that you need. So that's what VLOOKUP does. And we're going to be using ChatGPT to create a VLOOKUP formula for exactly the same. So just so that ChatGPT does not get confused, I'm just going to name this employee ID reference something. Here also reference, okay.  so that it's clear for both of us and chat gpt also. So I'm just going to go to chat gpt and yeah first see the table what is the table name that we have we have table 9 I'm just  And here is the prompt for that. So here is the prompt. Create a VLOOKUP formula for the table EMPDATA, which is a table name with columns employee ID, employee name and department. I want you to create a VLOOKUP formula by using which I can fetch the employee name using the employee ID. So let's run it and see what kind of formula do we get. So as you can see, this is the formula that we got. VLOOKUP at employee ID EMPDATA.  Here, we have to do one small modification while we are pasting it. I'm just going to show you when I'm pasting it. First, let's see what kind of explanation ChatGPT gave for providing this formula. So you're using the table in Excel and structured reference are enabled. So basically, I already showed you how to create a table by which we can reference a specific column name. The employee ID structure reference is used to table  of employee ID. So, this one we are going to be replacing with the employee ID we are referencing. Then, the employee ID in the first column of EMP data. Okay, basically the employee ID is the first reference employee data and then we have employee name in the second column. So, in the second one we have employee name, hence the number 2 in the formula. So, as you can see  Then we have false specific that they are looking for a exact match. False basically will do is it will look for exact match otherwise it will return false. So let's just copy this formula over here and let's go there.  also here is another formula but this one will work so let's just focus on this one so here we are going to paste the formula and at the first let me show you how it will do nothing you need to replace this part with this one this is where we are referencing right so we need to reference put the correct reference once it's done click enter and we can just drag it down  So employee ID 2891, here we can see. Jamie Doe, we have Jamie Doe. Then we have 198, then we have Casey here. We have Casey here as well. And 4627 is Jesse here, and we have Jesse here as well. So like this, you can use VLOOKUP to reference a specific column of the table  or look through the whole table, because the order can have been changed, right? So using VLOOKUP is the best and most effective way. But there are other types, other uses also. I just showed you VLOOKUP because this is a little bit complex. And if you can create something like this from ChatJPT, you can create something similar also. So that's it for this video. Let's move on to the next one. 

Range Lookup (Using Image)

 Hi guys, so in this video we are gonna be trying to make a range lookup using just an image from our shield. In the last video we did VLOOKUP. Range lookup is another lookup but it is a bit more advanced and it has its own benefits but it has a little bit of more complexity as well. So we're gonna try to see if ChatGPT is successfully able to give us a good lookup using like the range lookup XLOOKUP.  So what we're going to do is we're going to take a screenshot of our data. Before we do that, let me explain to you what data we have right now. So we have two tables basically. First one is named client sales, where we have client ID and the amount.  Another table is the discount table where we have certain thresholds at which we give different amount of discount. So let's say someone bought 200 rupees worth of some product, he will get 5% discount. Somebody bought 1400 worth of product, he will get a 50% discount. So we want to create like a lot these people discount as per their amount of purchase. So let's take a screenshot of this.  whole thing and paste it into chat gpt so i pasted the screenshot on chat gpt and here is my prompt i want you to help me fill the discount column in the table client sales on the left by using the values of on the discount table on the right give me the formula please so i want a formula not necessarily the exact values of discount so let's see how it comes up with the new formula so as you can see it gave us a vlookup formula at first  Let's try to see if it works or not. When I come back here, I'm going to paste this over here. And as you can see, it's working perfectly. Someone is making a purchase of close to 800 is getting 20% discount, which is the range of 7 to 900 discount. And let's say someone is making 1400 or 1300 purchase. They're getting 40% discount, which is correct. 600 getting 10%. Yeah, that is correct as well.  So till now you might think why do even we need a range lookup like XLOOKUP or anything. The reason we need is if it's not in ascending order, it will mess up. Let me show you. Let's say I move this to the top. Okay. I move this to the bottom or somewhere. I move this maybe in the second place.  So let me just move this just a little above. Now let's see what discount are we giving. So someone making a purchase of 900 rupees is getting less discount than someone making a purchase of say  Ideally, 900 rupees should be given a discount of 30% or at least a discount of 20% by the 700 rupees. So, it is messed up. Correct. So, let's just ask ChatGPT that what if the discounts are not ascending, what will you do? So, I've just given it a small prompt. What if the discount table does not have values arranged in an ascending order? Let's see what it comes up with.  So as you can see, it's giving us an index formula. So let's try it out and see if this works or not. So we have the index formula, which I don't think is working. Correct. It's still giving very less discount.  and yeah still did not fix it just see what chatgpd gives us so this is how you're gonna troubleshoot things you're gonna tell it what kind of error you're gonna like because we did not get any error let's just ask it what uh what do we do if we can't work this way so it gave us another formula using the index function and it told us that you need to have excel 365 or excel 2019 so let's try it out let's see if this one works  so I don't think this one is working either same issue all together again okay so it did not work right let's just try to ask it to give us maybe an XLOOKUP formula  So let's see if it provides us an XLOOKUP formula, because most probably XLOOKUP is the best way to solve an issue like this. So as you can see, it gave us an XLOOKUP formula finally, which looks correct to me. Let's try it out. Let's see if it's correct or not. So let's just copy it and we're going to paste it right here.  and as you can see it's working so the 600 guy is getting 10% discount as he is supposed to be and the one making a purchase of a thousand rupees and above is getting around 40% discount as it should be so now if you see the problem is fixed and no matter how we arrange it this stuff is going to work  so anyhow we arrange it doesn't matter it's going to keep working so that's how you create an XLOOKUP formula and more importantly how you troubleshoot things plus you can also paste an image directly from your sheet and give chatgpt more context because if you see chatgpt directly gave us the range values we did not specify it to use any headers of any tables so this also is handy if you want to use  a range in place of a header. So that's it for this video and let's meet in the next one. 

Generating Advanced Formulas with ChatGPT

 Hi guys, welcome back. In this video, we're going to be generating advanced formulas using ChatGPT for an Excel query. So like filtering results and all that stuff, which is a bit complex. If you have tried to do it before, we're going to try to replicate that, but without wasting too much time, just using ChatGPT. So let's have a look. In here, you will see a dataset, which  have city, country, customer served and revenue generated. In the cities we have different kind of cities and in the countries we have specific countries of the cities. Then the customer served is like a number of how many customer base we have and then we have a simply revenue generated amount in dollars.  So what we want is, let's say you want to have like the cities which are generating over $50,000 of revenue and you only want to see the city, nothing else. Okay. So how are we going to do that? Let's just ask ChatGPT. So we're going to take a screenshot and here in ChatGPT, we're going to paste the screenshot.  short and add in our prompt but before we do that you know one important thing that is naming our table properly and second thing being remembering the column names so let's go to the table design and name our table something like city sales something like this okay so the  So here we have a very simple prompt that I have a table city sales that contains columns city, country, customers served and revenue generated. Write an Excel formula to filter out the cities which has  which have revenue generated more than 50,000 we did not specify any currency because that is in the header itself so first we see this formula let's try it out let's see what do we get so if you see here there is a one big problem it is giving us like the cities and this is fine but we did not ask for these columns right so maybe we need to specify them a little better in the original prompt  here. So it gave us another filter. Let's try it out. Let's see. Still the same issue. So finally after quite a bit of back and forth, we have gotten ChatGPT to give us the right answer. So what happened is it was first showing us the four columns and I asked it to just give me two that I want and then it again it was displaying  getting the right cities but instead of showing me city and revenue it was showing me city and country so I asked it to reformat it but this formula was also again wrong so I again asked it so can you please refer to the column names so that fixed a lot of things but it still was having a bit of issue  At the end, I decided to just delete the function to use, which I was surprised how instantaneously it gave me the right answer. So probably I should have included that this function should be used. So usually in these kinds of cases,  It's better to help ChatGPT with as much data as you can give. So just imagine, in the first prompt only, I told it, use the choose function. Because I just said, how about you use the choose function? It gave me this formula. Let me just paste it to show you that this works.  pasted it will still work because I also asked it to add the column names and all like refer to the column names instead of the ranges and plus it also is using the choose function so it's able to detect the things properly so whatever cities which has 50,000 plus revenue we can see it here.  So that's how you should ask questions to ChatGPT and refine your questions by having a tree of thought or chain of thought prompting process. Keep giving it inputs based on your understanding so that you will also learn with ChatGPT. So from next time, whenever you want to make something this complex,  Use this, don't use ranges, use column names. And third thing, use the choose function or this function, that function. So that way you can save a lot of back and forth to yourself by giving it a lot of input on your own. Because, jrgibit is good at analytical skills like drafting the formula very fast.  Thinking might be a bit of issue, maybe because right now this version is not so good. In the future, it probably won't need that either, but we want the best result possible. So it doesn't hurt us to just tell it, give it a little hint, like use this function or that function. So I hope this video was enjoyable and you learned something from it. So let's move on to the next video. 

Ask ChatGPT to explain complex formula

 Hi everyone, so in this video we are going to be seeing how to ask chatgptr to explain us the complex formula in excel in detail. So if you see here there is a table based on the data of this one.  This table is generated by this formula. If you see here, a filter-based formula is there, which looks a bit complex. So what we're going to do is, we're going to just copy this formula, go to chat.cpt, and simply ask it to explain to us.  So I simply pasted the Excel formula and at the end, I added a prompt. Here's an Excel formula for the data set I have. Can you please explain to me what this does? So in other cases, I would have included a screenshot of the data set also, but in this case, ChatterJPT already has it, so I don't have to reference it again.  so let's just send it let's see what do we get so if you see it's saying the formula you have provided uses filter sort match and average these are the four functions that we are using on top of it it has city sales 2 is presumably the name of the table that contain your data yes that is correct and it's including at least column revenue generated and customer served so it knows that our like table has four columns  for instance, two of them. So it knows that it at least have these two columns. Then we have a match function, which matches the revenue generated and the rest of the headers. And at the end, we have this zero. The zero argument specifies that it's looking for an exact match.  so basically it finds the position of the revenue generated column within the headers of city sales 2 and then it is looking for exactness simply what do we mean is revenue generated bracket dollars is something that i know is there in my table okay but i don't know where exactly it is first second third or last column so it will search for this in the table called city sales 2's headers once it finds it  Peace.  Once it finds it, it will return the values of that one. Then we have sort, city sales two, dot, dot, minus one. So the sort of this entire city sales two table based on the column identified by match function, the minus one argument specifies the sorting should be done in descending order and the highest levels. So if you dot, dot, that you see here, we actually have the function here, basically the match function.  right so it will basically take the table city cells to whatever the match argument replies with we it's gonna like sort a list out of it in a descending order highest to lowest because we have the minus one here if we had zero i think it or one probably will be in ascending not really remember that one but yes you can just simply ask it what if  what is the argument for ascending so if you see for the ascending we have the order as 1 and minus 1 is for descent then we have average city sales 2 customers served calculated the average numbers of customers served across all cities of city sales 2 this basically takes an average across all the cities number of customers served  Then we have city sales too. Customer served is greater than average sales to customer served. Now you are getting the picture right. We take the average amount of customers. Then we take the city's individual numbers. We compare it with the average to see which ones have higher than average customers served to get their data out. So at the end, what the filter function does is  filtered the sorted city sales 2 table including only those rows where the customer served exceeds the average. So basically in a way the formula sorts the city sales 2 by revenue generated in descending order and filters the table only showing the rows where the customer served is greater than the average customer served. So basically it does couple of steps in the same formula  That's why it's like a nested formula if you see. There are formulas within the formula. So, to put it simply, it has a grand table. First, what it will do is, it will take an average of all the customers served and then whatever the average is, it will only consider the cities which are above average. Now, the rest of the cities are discarded.  then it will take whatever revenue generated is and it will sort it according to the revenue generated. So for example, like Delhi and Kolkata are in the first criteria are done. They are above average. Okay. But Delhi generates more revenue than Kolkata. So Delhi will be on top of Kolkata while giving the final table. So that's how our final table comes out to be. So technically Sao Paulo, which is in Brazil, gives the  Yeah, I think it also has the highest number of customers also. See here, we have this city, which has the highest amount of revenue. Then we have this, this, this and this city. So now you know how you will ask ChatJPT to explain complex formulas like this in a simple way.  this another good prompt that you can use is explain me like a five-year-old that is even better but that can take a little more time for chatgp to explain you because it's trying to explain a five-year-old not someone already knows excel so based on whatever you know you can just adjust the level of difficulty by that age like i'm five year old 15 year old something like this and based on an average iq of five year old chatgp will like frame the answer based on your need  So that's it for this video and let's move on to the next one. 

Uploading files to ChatGPT to analyze the formula of a cell

 Hi everyone so in this video we're going to be covering uploading a file to chat gpt to analyze a formula of a specific cell so unlike last time where we uploaded a screenshot we had to give the table name column name all that kind of stuff also the formula  For it to analyze what kind of problem we are running into or what kind of formula it is, we are simply going to export the file, upload it to ChatGPT and we'll see how ChatGPT performs in that. So I have the file open. If you want to download something from the online Excel, you can just search download here.  You will get download a copy option. Just click on this and it will download. I've already downloaded this copy where we have all these different sheets. I just deleted everything and we only have this one. So now we're gonna upload this to chat GPT and see how it goes. If you are using offline Excel, you automatically have the files. So you can just upload that directly too.  So we're going to go to chat.gpt here and drop in our file. So once the file is here, we need to add a prompt. Then we have, here's an Excel file. Please explain with a formula in the cell F17. Okay. So what the formula in F17 do? So this kind of reference, if you provide, it's faster for chat.gpt also to understand what you're looking for.  and let's just run it so basically this is like a moving average formula of the last seven values of the table so let's see how chatgp performs and what it tells us how it works so one thing you might face sometimes is when you directly upload an excel file instead of a csv file it might say sorry i can't do this so in these cases just say you can't do it try using python so you just need to give a little bit of motivation with some insight to chatgp  and then you can crack the code. Now that it has successfully fetched our formula. Okay. I think it was about the last six values, not the seven. Let's see how it broke down our formula. So this formula uses some index and rows functions to calculate the sum of the specific range within the revenue generated column of city cells three. So basically it's using three functions on the revenue generated column to have like generate the result.  let's see what it's basically doing so this part of the puzzle refers to the entire row or entire column within the city sales 3 table and then rows city sales 3 this part of it calculates how many rows are there in the table so how many rows are there in the table this whole term basically what it does is it calculates the total number of rows  in the revenue generated column and returns the last sixth value because we are keeping the average of the last six sales the last six data points so that's how we are like calculating it  And at the end, the whole SUM function sums up all those values that it got. So, in simple terms, this formula sums up the last 7 values in the revenue generated column of the city cells table. So, on point. So, basically now you get the point. It is keeping track of the last 7 values of the table.  and keeping an average of it this is not really a good example usually we use moving average in terms of years so let's say apple has been started let's say 1900s 1920 maybe 1980 1990 from that time every year it has some amount of sales  But instead of considering that whole data range, we want to consider what is happening in the last 20 years of Apple. So we use moving average like this to calculate those things. For example, we want to like have decade wise or three years wise. So we calculate moving averages of every three or six year gap. That way we are able to calculate the data based on a wider range of like data points. Because sometimes what will happen is due to COVID, it might look like  suddenly 2019-2020 Apple sales dropped then someone might like if someone doesn't know about COVID they might think Apple was not performing that well in that time but actually what happened is this is something which is not in hand of Apple right so that's why fluctuations like this get normalized by using  like moving average formulas like this. So now you know how this formula came to be and what is the use of this formula as well. So this is just a small demonstration that instead of doing the whole process of uploading images, uploading formulas and all that stuff, just upload the file, ask Excel that, ask ChatGPT that this is Excel file, tell me about this formula, tell me about that formula. Because this is just one formula, might have 10 other formulas also.  So chat repeater can help you with all of them at once. So I hope you found this video helpful and are gonna try this out by your own. So now let's move on to the next video. 

Excel 18

 Hi everyone, welcome back. So in this video, we're going to be debugging Excel formulas using ChatGPT. So let's have a look. As you can see in front of me, I have a data set of sales of a fruit seller, which has everything from apple bananas to figs and grapefruit.  So the way this table should work ideally is we have the date of sale, then we have the item name, and then we have the quantity of the item, how much sales we have, and then we have a price per item, right? So till this point, everything looks all right, but here we see a problem. We have a formula to create a discount, correct? But it's giving an error, it's not working.  So, if you see, by looking at the formula, I can say we want to give a discount of 0% if the item value is less than 20 rupees and 5% if the item value  is between 20 to 30 and it's over 30 we want to give 10% but it's not working there is some issue we're gonna use chargeability for it then we have total sales before discount this should this looks fine because we have total sales before discount is basically quantity into per item price and we have it alright as you can see we are multiplying these two  here also that for some reason it should calculate the discounted price but it's giving a value error and then at the end we have a running total of sales so it's like whatever sales the seller made from like these seven days 1st to 7th it's like let's say first day he made $10 next day he made $20 it should be $30 running total by day 2 something like this it should happen but it's somehow running in negative then we  have a positive value I don't know what's happening so we'll have a look and we'll give first we'll send a screenshot to chatgpt and then explain our problem as well so here's the image that I have uploaded for chatgpt's reference on top of which this is my prompt for this problem  I sent a table screenshot and I explained it what all columns are facing issues with with their respective like formulas as you can see we have the column name here and then we have the formula being used there.  There are two ways you can approach this basically. Send the screenshot, ask for one problem at each time. That way, it is a bit long process, but you will get much accurate results. But if I just ask three questions, there is a probability that some of them will work, some of them won't. So there will be a bit of back and forth, but this table looks easy. So probably, ChatGPT will  get it in one go. If it doesn't, we can always have a chain of thought prompting. So let's send this to chatjpd and see what it comes up with. So let's see what it came up with. For the first one, the discount formula issue, it said the formula of discount percentage column is not structured correctly. Excel is reading the inner if as text because of the quotes.  and the percentage values are not written in the way excel can interpret as numbers so basically what it is trying to say is if you see in the formula here the if is inside of quotations so it's treating if not as a function but as a text so that's why we are facing this kind of issue so it just removed the quotations there and it's saying this should work so this is the first solution let's just try it out  So in place of this, I'm just going to paste the new formula and yeah, it seemed to be working properly. So this one fixed our issue. One thing to remember is if you are like not, it did not like format this one as a percentage, it won't look like this. It will probably look something like this 0.1, 0.5 like this, but if you have it formatted as a  Then it will look properly. Next, this is the total sales after discount issue. The formula of total sales after discount is attempting to divide by the percentage which is causing an error because Excel cannot directly divide by percentage format.  it's basically saying don't divide by the like if you see the original formula we are trying to divide it by the percentage but we shouldn't divide it we should multiply it rather than that because excel cannot divide by percentage even if it can the answer would be wrong so let's just paste that over here and let's see what do we get yeah fixed the total sales of course we just have to fix the running total now and we should be good to go  So for the running total, it suggested a long formula, but I don't think this will work. Basically the saying, the formula is running total sales seem to be referencing only the current rows, total sales after discount. To create a running total, you need to add current row sales to add. Okay. It's getting the formula correctly that we should keep on adding it, but let's just have a look if it's working or not. Cause I don't think it's going to work. Yeah, it's not working. Oh, okay. Let me just auto fill this thing.  Hmm, I think it worked actually. So it basically referenced the row 2 and then it used, basically it said, let's just have a look, here we have a small explanation by Excel itself. But let's see what it's trying to do is, this formula checks if the row, in the second row, where the data starts and just takes the current cell. If it's not the second row, then it adds the current row cells to previous cells.  So basically it just keeps on accumulating the sales of the last rows and based on that it will just append the values moving forward. So this is how you troubleshoot things in Excel and by just one screenshot and a small prompt  And of course, we conditioned ChatGPT first with this base prompt as AppTest and Microsoft Excel Expert, which you learned at the first video itself. So like this, you can fix this whole issue. If, honestly, I were to sit down and search Google for fixing this issue, I don't think I'll get that answer less than 30 minutes at least. And it's less than five minutes if you just do it by ChatGPT.  So let me know what you think about this hack of debugging formula using chat GPT and let's meet in the next video. 

Excel 19

 Hi everyone, welcome back. So in this video, we are going to be looking at how to make an inefficient formula more efficient using ChatGPT. So for that, I have a really good example for you. You can see on the left side, we have the scores of various students. On the right side, we have the grade. So this is the formula basically where we are checking it. If A2, the value of this one is greater than 90, then give A. If it's greater than 80, then give this  inefficient because there are way more better ways to just do this thing. So, instead of using this, we'll ask chatGPT. We'll give it context via screenshot and then a formula then to make it, ask it to make it more efficient. So, basically on chatGPT, I uploaded this screenshot and this prompt. Here is an excel sheet of the scores of the students. The grade formula seems to be very inefficient.  Is there a way to make it better? And I have also pasted the current formula here. So let's send this to chatGPT and see, let's see what it says. So here is the response of chatGPT, which I really like. It's asking us to use a lookup for lookup instead. So instead of using that kind of if-else formula, you can just use a lookup formula to achieve the same result and it's much more efficient. So let's just paste it there and see if this even works or not.  So it didn't work but the reason being we need to select the correct ranges first. So first to create this lookup formula  done so this is like a legend where we have all the grading system and based on this the lookup form lookup table is going to grade the students right so I'm just gonna make this same lookup table and let's see if that starts working or not so I've created the grade system as you can see we have the marks and then we have the grade here now it starts working properly  doing is it's checking the numbers from the left side and matching it what value we should assign to this so the best part of it is it is scalable right so we don't need to hard code anything or any such kind of thing we can just simply start giving more marks to the student  let's say here 50 and it will just keep on adding new new things so and also it's very much much more efficient also so like this you can just keep on like upgrading this formulas plus if you don't like this use case you can just ask it for different  I just asked it that I don't like this way of doing it. Do you have any other methods? So this time, instead of giving it as one option, it gave us two options. First is using a VLOOKUP where we have this formula and the similar table. And the second is a MATCH and INDEX functions like together, using them together to achieve the same result. So let's just have a look. Let's try it out and see if this works or not.  So here we're going to paste this. This works perfectly fine. And let's try this one also.  This one also works. So apart from all this, you can also ask it to specific functions also. Let's say instead of all this, you want to use a switch case. So let's just ask chatjupyty that. So now this time we can ask, just, can you give me a switch formula for this? So it just gave me a switch case formula, that too in a really nice nested way. So let's have a look if this works.  So this has some issues probably. Let's see what's okay. I pasted it in the wrong way. So instead of just pasting it directly, I need to double click on the cell because it's a nested formula. So then it will paste everything in the same part. Now it's working as expected. So like this, you can improve the current  make them more efficient, change them, use the function that you like. Everything can be done with chat GPT. Just send it a screenshot and explain it the context. So with that, let's conclude this video here and let's move on to the next one. 

Excel 20

 Hi everyone. First of all, congratulations on completing the first two parts of the course. Now we are finally in the Excel Elite section where we're going to be learning advanced strategies and solutions for the experts. So in here, there are two main heads.  data analysis, and macros. So, basic data analysis, this is the structure for data analysis. First, we're going to be comparing lists and data insights with Chatshipity, creating charts, both native and non-native to Excel, and finally, sentiment analysis too.  In the second part we are going in detail with macros and this is something excel geeks would know but if you don't basically excel takes in VBA code to perform some actions on like automated way for example if you have let's say a VBA code which hides every sheet except the one you need something like this that is one example other than that there are a lot of example like  renames each sheet based on the naming scheme that you decide. Something like that. You can create a VBA code and now you don't even need to learn VBA. You can just use Chats GPT for the same. So this is basically an introduction video of what you can expect for this part of the course. So without wasting any more time, let's get started. 

Excel 21

 one of the most used use case of excel that is comparing data so in this sheet we have three years of sales data where we have different product type like different product prices and how sales changed over time how prices over time changed all the data of three years 2021 to 2023  So I have already downloaded this and now I'm going to upload this file to ChatGPT and then we're going to ask it several questions based on the data here. So I uploaded the file to ChatGPT and this is my prompt. Here is the yearly sales data of my products. I want you to compare the data from three tables and give me the following.  How did the sales of product ID one change over the years? And number two, did the change in price of product ID two affect the sales of it? So basically I'm just saying, number one, tell me how the price, like how the product sales fluctuated for product one and changing the price of product two, did that affect the sales over time? So let's see what it comes up with. So we finally got the response. So basically what was happening is the chat GPT was  hallucinating a bit so it was just giving error on top of error. So just created a new chat and in there I pasted exactly the same prompt in the file and it just worked like magic. So if you're facing something like this that you are just getting errors on top of errors, instead of containing the same chat, just reset the context by creating a new chat. If you want, you can just paste in the conditioning prompt as well that you are  Excel expert, this and that. So then after resetting the context, it should probably start working like in this case.  So let's see, it basically said the Excel file containing a single sheet named comparing list, which seems to consolidate all the three years of sales data, which is correct. We have all the sales data in one sheet only. Apart from this, here is the main thing. So first thing I asked is sales change on product one over the years. So first the sales change was 150 to 180, then to 170.  Second thing I asked is, what is the impact of the price change on product 2? So, let's have a look at the summary here. Product ID 1 saw an increase in sales in 150 units in 2021 to 180 in 2022, basically an increase of 30 points and followed by a slight decrease of 10 points in 2023.  all while the unit price increased each year from $20 to $24. This suggests a robust demand that could stand price increases. So just to verify this, let's go back to our sheet and let's have a look if the data is accurate or not.  So if you can see, this is the product one, right? First year we got 150 sales and where we had $20 as the price, then as it said, we increased it to 180. Even though the price increased, the sales kept on increasing. And then the price slightly decreased by 10 points, which is still better than the first year. And we are selling it at $24. That is actually correct.  Next, let's see the second one. Two experienced a decrease in sale when the price remained the same between 2021-22, from 200 to 150, but the sales increased to 180 units with a minor price increase in $16. So this is a bit interesting, right? That for the product B, when the price remained stable, $15 in this year also, next year also, we saw a decrease  decrease also like by 50 points but when we increase the price by slightly like $1 it like the sales increased so it might not be because of the price that the sales are decreasing it might be because of something else that's how that's what we know about this analysis so like this this is one small analysis you can ask any kind of questions to this and based on your the analysis  sub chart gpt it will give you a very informed decision that this is what's happening and this is my analysis for it so i think this this one the analysis that we can do from chart gpt is almost 5 to 10x better than what is present in like natively in excel right so whenever you get a chance just  use the chat jpeg analysis if it's super basic then you can use the excel one because it's native it's easy to use so yeah that's it for this video and let's move on to the next one 

Excel 22

 Hi everyone, welcome back. So, in this video we are going to be doing something interesting. So, last video we saw how to ask chatgpt the questions, whatever insights that you need, chatgpt will do the analysis for you and give you the analysis, right. But what if you don't know what to ask? Yeah, that happens sometimes, right, that you have some sort of data, you want to find some sort of pattern but you don't  really know what you're looking for. So in those cases, you can just ask chatgpt for insights and it will give you kickass analysis plus some nice graphs also. I'm going to show you all that. I'm going to go deep in the graphs in the next video, because in this video, I'm just going to show you how to ask chatgpt for analysis on your data, which you don't know what to do.  So I just uploaded the file here and I just simply asked it, here is the sales data of my company. Can you give me some insights? So let's see what ChatGPT answers to us. So ChatGPT gave us a response. Let's have a look of what it come up with.  So first it gave analysis of what all columns do we have in the table. Then it said there is the overall sales trend. Here it is. Total revenue is something like this. Total units sold is something like this. And average unit price is something like this. Now, it also said there, you can also differentiate based on best and least selling products, right? So the best selling product is this one. The least selling is this one. And this is the overall observation.  how to ask for example you can just ask it to create like a some sort of visual showing what's the like revenue trend over the years or you can also just simply ask it what is the top 10 selling products the top 10 best selling products let's ask it that let's see what it comes up with so this is my prompt can you provide me an analysis of the top 10 selling products  with some visuals. So let's see what it comes up with. So now it gave us some really nice visuals. As you can see, this is the top 10 selling product. And here we have like a really nice graph. And here's the second graph where revenue generated by top 10 selling products. If you see, there is not too much variation in this one. It's like 5-10% difference, right? The top product is this much, the top 10th product is this much.  but if you see the revenue figures it's very very like differentiated even though the top sales is very like similar but the revenue is going up and down a lot so this tells you a lot that this specific product gives me the most revenue so you might maximize on that product the most  Here it also gave total units sold and revenue generated over the years. So like this, you can ask it for specific use cases and don't be afraid to ask it about what to exactly ask chatgpt also. Like you can just ask chatgpt, this is my data. What do you think you like? Should I like give me some analysis on it? So if you don't know what to ask, just ask chatgpt.  help you in learning data analysis even better because ChatGPT will tell you what are the proper questions to ask. For example, we made a completely uneducated guess and just said whatever you think just tell me this is the data I have. It gave us 3-4 data points that this is what analysis I can come up with and based on which we expanded our analysis.  So like this, you can ask it for more and more questions that what do you think about this, that, and you can have a really nice conversation with chat GPT in which you will learn a lot about data analysis. So now that you know how to create these visuals, let's get into detail into the next video just on this. So let's move on to the next video. 

Excel 23

 Hi everyone, welcome back. So in the last video, we discussed how you're going to ask chatgpt to analyze the data for you and even give you suggestions on what to analyze. On top of which, you have seen that chatgpt can generate some really nice graphs and charts, right?  So in this video, our goal is to create these kind of great looking charts, but there's a twist. Not only we'll generate what's already there in Excel, like this kind of chart, bar chart, or something like this, or a plot line chart.  We're going to generate some charts which are not naturally present in Excel. For example, a violin chart, a cycle chart, all those kind of charts. So let's have a look. We have a very simple prompt. Basically, we are saying, can you create a following chart for product one sales over the years?  And in there, we are specifying the different kind of charts that we want. First is line chart. Then we have the bar chart. These two are already present in Excel. So there's nothing special here. I'm just doing it for the example purpose so that you can know that this kind of charts can be also generated by chart GPT. Here we have violin chart and cycle plot chart also, which are not available in Excel by default. So we can create these also. I'm going to show you how to put this in Excel also.  So we finally got our result. So like last time it again was ChatJet was giving some errors and stuff. So I created a new chat window. Then I pasted the same prompt and I also gave the Excel sheet once again because this window didn't have the context. So as you can see, the thing we're interested in is like the line chart and the bar chart and the violin chart and the cycle pot chart, right?  so there is if you see these are good but this is blank right so sometimes something like this can happen for so for these use these things i would recommend you to instead of having all those four  and just create one at a time. That way, ChatGPT can allocate more resources to your request and can fulfill your request more easily. So let's try it out asking for one by one. Let's see what do we get. So after asking for ChatGPT for separate charts with each command, let's see what kind of results we got. So this is the line chart, and this is exactly as we got in the first draft also. This was correct.  This is the second one, which was blank initially and now it's showing data. This is the violin chart. Usually violin charts are like violins, but because this is one number that I'm asking for, it's giving a flat line. But we'll fix that later on. We asked for a different kind of stat.  and this is another chart but this one also is not that good because this is I just asked for three years of data but while in chart need kind of a distribution so then I asked for a distribution based question that how the sales of first year are  distributed among all the products. So this is how the voiling chart came out. So let's say you cannot create this kind of chart in Excel and you finally created something like this in ChatGPT. So you can simply right click here and copy the image. If you want, you can also save it, but I'm just going to copy it. I'm going to go back to Excel and I'm just going to hit control V.  and this should just simply paste the chart right here. You can just move it around or if you want you can paste it on this set also so that you know that this is how the data is represented. You have title and everything on point. Only drawback being this will not automatically update. So if your data is like constant, then only this kind of approach works. Other than that, you have to stick to whatever charts are available inside of Excel.  So that's it for this video. Let's move on to the next one. 

Excel 24

 Hi everyone, welcome back. So in this video, you're going to be learning something really important for almost every business on earth, which is called sentiment analysis. So not a lot of businesses know how to do this. And this is one of the crucial parts of business as well. So in a nutshell, sentiment analysis is basically you have certain reviews from your customers. Let's say this is like a review sheet of a sofa set on Amazon.  You have the reviews data of your customers. So you want to analyze what's the sentiment of your customers about your product, which will help you in a lot of things. For example, coming up with future products, what you want to fix on that, what you should keep constant, which people like, you should not be changing what people like, and like a lot of things, what people are unhappy about and all that kind of stuff.  So, no matter what kind of business you're running or what kind of company you're working for, has someone as a customer, right? If it's an MNC company who serves services to US-based companies, they also got reviews. If someone is selling his products on Amazon, he also has reviews. And someone selling digital product also has reviews. So, if you learn this thing, it's going to be coming in handy in a lot of places. So, without wasting any more time,  let's get started. So I have uploaded the file onto chat gpt and this is my prompt. Perform a sentiment analysis on the sheet that has reviews for my sofa on amazon and create a column containing the overall sentiment between positive negative or neutral. At the end show me  screen and then if I ask to proceed give me the CSV file. So basically I said do the sentiment analysis and create a row where you can create a quantitative based on data like positive, negative or neutral based on the number of  can even go into detail. So as you can see, it's doing its magic. It's creating the file. But before this, I'm just going to address a few things. If you might have the question that we already have the rating system, why do we even need sentiment analysis? Correct. So I would bet you would have seen sometimes that people are rating one star and giving a good reviews and people who are rating five stars are giving like bad reviews.  So there can be two ways this can happen, something like this. Either number one, the person who is operating this thing doesn't know how the review system works. He just did five star, one star. And number two can be, he might be doing like accidentally hitting that kind of rating button.  So that's why the rating is not 100% sure. That's why even if you see the sites on Amazon, if you order product with very good reviews, it might end up being a really bad product. So one case can of course be fake reviews, but other case can be something like this. Human error as well plays a lot of role.  So if someone is going out of their way to write something for you, so you should be able to understand what kind of sentiment is going around. That's why we do this kind of sentiment analysis so that we know the data in detail and for sure that what's going on with the product.  So as you can see, for the first 10 rows, it has generated the file and here it's positive review, so it said positive. Here we have a negative review, the color different from what I saw in the picture. So this is neutral. So this is not necessarily negative review, but yeah, it is not positive either. So it's kind of leading towards negative, but it's overall like neutral as per chat GPT.  Here we have a negative review. Very uncomfortable. The cushions are hard and it's very uncomfortable. So this is how a negative review should look like. Now it makes sense why it put this one in neutral. So like this, it did sentiment analysis for these and I think this is pretty good. So I will just ask it to move forward with the CSV file. So here we have our CSV file. Let's download it and see if the column is created properly or not.  so here you will see the sentiment column is created and we have been given proper reviews from start to end like here you can see there is one good example if you see the rating in the last review is one okay but the person is saying love it  right the person is saying absolutely love the sofa it's game changer for my living room even though the person gave a one star rating so that can be like human error right so this kind of errors to avoid that we take care of this kind of like what if someone is going out of their way to write something then they probably won't be doing that kind of mistakes  So this is one way to achieve this result. There is another bonus way that I want to include. So if you don't want to use chat GPT, you can use Excel Labs, which we talked about in the previous videos. But let me just show you how to do sentiment analysis from Excel Lab.  so if you don't already know how excel lab works you can go to the first part of this course there i have a dedicated video about excel labs so you can understand and install excel lab and see how it works now i'm just going to show you the implementation of it in sentiment analysis so it's labs dot generative ai and then we're going to add our prompt so here if you see the prompt is  Here is a review about my sofa from Amazon. I want you to categorize between positive, negative or neutral with no leading text after it and then I added a and symbol and then I referenced that specific cell.  So to give you a rough outline, basically the reason we said no reading text after it is because we want one word answer, that's why. And the Excel app does not have access to the whole sheet, so we have to manually give it access to the specific cell.  Now that we have it properly figured out, we can just click enter. And this is going to auto-fill till the end of the full 100 reviews. And it's going to give us the sentiment analysis that too on live. So you don't have to worry about data update. Let's say you have an Excel sheet that just keeps on updating itself.  so then you will use this and this will help you save a lot of time it is a bit more expensive than that one because every generation will cost you money but if you're using gpd 3.5 it should be good enough it shouldn't cost a lot so if you see it's like reviewing things live as we speak and just for example if you say if i just change this review which is a negative review that the questions  are very hard and very uncomfortable. I can say just I really love this product. Let's see if it updates it to a positive review or not. It is initially negative if you see. Just for the proof I have highlighted it and let's see if it makes it positive or not.  So here we finally got the review updated. I just had to refresh the page because of the amount of load we put in OpenAI. It was taking a bit of time. So if you see, I changed this one star review from like, it was very uncomfortable as the title. I changed it and we finally got the positive as a review. So like this, you can have it update in real time.  time as well if you want something like that. So these are the two ways you can do sentiment analysis using chat GPT and let me know what you think about this whole process and how much helpful would this be to a company who wants to know what their customer is currently thinking about the company. 

Excel 25

 Hi everyone, welcome back. So first of all, congratulations on successfully completing the first part of the Excel Elite course. And now we are entering into the macros, which is going to be the final part of the course. And in this one, we're going to be discussing about macros. If you are interested in what basically are macros, they are like VBA scripts, which will allow you to do a lot of functionality inside of Excel.  VBA is like a programming language, a very primitive programming language. And honestly, anyone from my generation wouldn't know about the name also because it is so old and almost no one wants to code in it because it is a bit of a headache to code. But the best part about it right now is, even if you want to do Excel macros, you don't necessarily need to learn VBA code. ChatGPT can do it for you. And that's what we're going to exactly be learning in this part of the course.  So hope you're excited for this part of the course and let's move on to the first video. 

