BTS of my companies

Establish a Faceless YouTube Channel

 Hey everyone, this is Avinash and this is the beginning of a new course which is behind the scenes of micro businesses I am building. So this is like the behind the scenes.  In this course, I will be talking about all the businesses I am building in very in depth in multiple modules, one module per business. So the first business I wanted to talk is my YouTube faceless channel business. So I stumbled upon this YouTube cash cow or faceless businesses nine months back when my agency is not doing great.  So, not 9 months, maybe a year ago, yeah. So, I know this name of Cash Cow Channels and Faceless Channels 2 years back, but then exactly a year ago, in the month of June or July last year 2022, I got to know about this thing and I just wanted to make money from it because my agency is not doing that great. So, I started my research.  took so much knowledge from the thing and started implementing. So I just wanted to show my journey, not my journey, but show all the tricks and tips that you could replicate my thing and what I do inside it, my business, right? You would be needing tools like ChargePT, Medjourney, Canva, and Flicky.ai. And startup cost to do this would be $10 to $100.  Steps to follow. Select a niche for your YouTube channel based on your passion or skills. If not, conduct market research to find potential niches, evaluate profitability based on search volume and potential partnership, and assess the long-term viability. And I will be attaching a document in this module, maybe in the description or as a separate file in the module,  in which I researched from my own research. I'll be recommending you maybe 20 different niches that you can stumble upon. And these 20 niches are excellent to start with, right? So use tools like vidIQ, AHRF and Google Trends to maybe understand the demand of the channel. Niche of your channel determines 40 to 50% of success.  And then use Chargibility to create engaging scripts for your YouTube content. Imagine you wanted to create one video on one topic. All you need to do is watch 4-5 videos that has good number of views already on this topic. Take all the notes. Take the prompt I gave you. In the prompt library, I have exact prompt I used to generate whole YouTube script.  follow the exact prompt format and prompt template and insert the pointers you got from watching four different videos into this format as an input and you'll get in output just like that your script is done you just need to refine it and uh you know have the final uh script ready so once your script ready once your script is ready you need to convert that script into video format and i recommend a tool called flicky.ai  Although I don't use Flicky.ai, but I heard very good reviews from my friends and some people in my social circle. So this involves generating a voiceover, adding captions, incorporating stock footage, and selecting suitable background music. So these are the exact 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 things you need to do inside the Flicky. All in just one app.  But we don't use Flicky.ai as I said. We use WellZedLabs. That's an AI voiceover tool for audio generation. And we use Picturey for video and Descript for caption. And we also sometimes generate captions in the Picturey itself. So you can just play around.  And we use for video editing, Picturey and sometimes we use Picturey, sometimes we use Descript. And we use Adobe Premiere Pro once 70-80% of the script is done. We take out the video, again insert into the Premiere Pro and do that high level things in After Effects and all, but that's absolutely not needed. Your content matters. If your content is engaging enough, you can edit the whole video inside the Picturey and Descript itself.  And of course, you will use mid journey and photoshop for the thumbnail or canva. Canva is also good. Everything that can be done in photoshop can be done in canva to an extent to create a thumbnail.  So mid journey, you can use mid journey to create some artworks or some pictures that you can show while the video is going on as a reference to make people little more engaging instead of getting some stock image.  you can get mid journey's image and show it. So you can use mid journey for these two different reasons. So I didn't recommend, the reason I didn't recommend well set labs and all this videos because all other tools because it would cost you $200 to get well set labs, picture redescript, mid journey premiere and photoshop, right? Photoshop okay, anyway you need it, canvas you can do it. The reason I am using, I am recommending you Flicky is it is one destination you can get  three features. That's the only reason I'm recommending you. But if you're not satisfied with Flicky, maybe try and do Well-Set Labs and Picturey for editing and stuff like that.  So yeah, so employ mid journey to design a unique and attractive logo for your YouTube channel and create a compelling thumbnails for your videos. Leverage Canva for additional thumbnail edits to add caption if needed. Carefully edit and refine your video content to ensure good quality before publishing.  Upload your video on YouTube, ensuring your channel spanning is consistent across the elements. You can't just do unprofessional video editing or unprofessional video editing just because it's a faceless channel. It should be good.  my youtube channel name is get rich bros right i'll try and add the link in the description or just search get rich bros we got almost 2000 subscribers in the last couple of months we're almost at to monetize we i think applied for the monetization as well and we got videos that has like 15,000 views 5,000 views and it's going good like it's a very good start right we just started two months ago  So promote your channel on various social media platforms if you have anything and monetize money from YouTube Partner Program once you are eligible. That's it. So these are like the step by steps we follow. And by the way, just watch it till end so that you will get the bonus of the file. I'll show you exactly what you get in the bonus.  So, who is this suitable for? Individuals who have an interest in content creation but prefer to remain anonymous because it's faceless. Right? You don't have your voice, the script is some, by chance, LGBT voiceover by some AI tool. So, it's not your voice, it's not your face, but you're just behind the scenes. Creatives who can utilize AI tools effectively and those who are looking for flexible side hustle that can potentially turn it into passive income source.  this is the best way to make money right now in 2023 if you wanted to make it like super passive the reason is the reason why I'm saying this is I'm like all in on this YouTube thing is YouTube is ever growing and it's very easy to create content and then it's scalable because it's faceless  You can create even 10 videos per day also with no problem. If it's your face and it's your voice, you can't make maybe more than a video per day. It's so difficult to get a YouTube video with face. But it's faceless even if you die.  the channel will just keep going. So it's very easy and very passive. And the best part is you can hire people to write scripts for you, generate voiceovers for you. You can just hire one script writer and one video editor, two people in your team and they can do all that stuff. And you know, it would cost you maybe 50,000 to 60,000 per month. And I'm sure within a couple of months or three months, you'll start making money at least a few hundred dollars per month.  And the best part is you are concentrating on only USA and UK markets as of now to start with. I don't recommend you to start with Indian niches because the CPMs here and the click prices here are not that great which is RPM.  are not that great. So I would definitely suggest you to stick with USA or any foreign country. I heard Japan is also great but then creating content in Japanese is a little difficult. So pros, you don't need any personal camera presence offering privacy. Leverage AI tools make content creation more accessible and less time-consuming. High growth and income potential if the channel gains popularity.  Flexibility in choosing content niche from education to entertainment and low startup cost. It will hardly cost you like $100 to $100 for the amount of money you're going to make from this strategy. $100 to $100 per month is nothing to start with.  Cons, building a viewer base on YouTube can take a little bit of time if your niche is not trending or things like that. And depending upon the niche, competition on YouTube also can be a little high. So monetization is dependent on YouTube's policy, which can change. So when it comes to voiceovers, you have two options. You can go to Fiverr, pay someone $5 to $10 per video and hire them.  for voiceover for real human voice or you can use a AI voice. Wellset Labs is a monetizable voice but whereas when you use Flicky or any other voiceover tools I'm not sure. People said it worked for them but Wellset Labs personally worked for me.  Right? So it's working, there's no strike till now, there's... Like I know a friend very close to me is using WellCityLabs and got 20,000 subscribers. So Flicky.ai, I'm hoping there will be no problem. But the reason any YouTube channel will not be monetized is not because of the voice, AI voice or AI content or something like that. If it has absolutely no value, it is almost like a spammy, spammy, scammy stuff. YouTube will not monetize you. As simple as that.  If your content is unique, is adding some value to YouTube's viewers, it will monetize you despite you using chat GPD and AI tools to generate voice content, etc. Right? So YouTube doesn't care. All it want is good content so that viewers stay in there. So as of now, there is no policy of not monetizing content that is related to AI or content that was generated by AI.  So yeah, marketing is very simple guys, not simple, it's actually difficult but then it's worth your efforts. So the first step you need to do to start your marketing is compile a list of 25 competing channels like  basically your competitors and identify their most popular videos. You go to their video section and you'll have latest and popular slots. Click on the popular and you'll get 25 videos. Study these videos to understand what factors contributed to their success and what factors can be improved. Aim to collect at least 10 in-depth videos for detailed analysis.  Right? So use top videos from your competitors as an inspiration for your content topics, giving you a starting point of 30 ideas. Note what worked and what could be improved from these videos, then incorporate these insights to your own scripts.  You know, you have 20 competitors or 25 competitors. Get top 2 or 3 videos of each one of them. Read their comments. Often times, in the comments, people give very good value bombs. So, you see some kind of a patterns if you watch 30 videos on the same topic or in the similar niche. Take those pointers as your feedback. Make better videos than them, of course.  and then take this feedback and implement them and the best and then what you need to do is this 25 competing channels or your competitor should be also faceless and I'm sure every niche has so many faceless channels that are already making money. Be it travel, be it crypto, be it golf, every single channel has  Every single niche already has faceless channels. So you'll definitely get it. So that's it. Avoid blatantly copying their style. And remember, you're taking inspiration from them. You're not copying them.  Optimize your videos with relevant tags. Research competitor videos and borrow their tags using tools like vidIQ and aim to have at least 15 tags per video.  and write a detailed and engaging description for your videos incorporating 10 to 15 keywords. This informs viewers about videos content and helps with YouTube search and discovery algorithm. Cross-promote your videos by linking previously related videos in the description and you know when you're talking about some topic and you find and you have a detailed video on that small subtopic already in your channel start inserting it so that  Session time on your channel will be increasing which will indicate that your channel is good to YouTube. Devise a keyword-friendly title for your video. Consider educational resources like vidIQ YouTube channel for optimizing technique.  vidIQ youtube channel is just a goldmine guys literally it's a goldmine and create an appealing and eye-catching thumbnails inspired by high view thumbnails of competitor videos so this draws in viewers you know viewers and increase click-through rates regularly share your videos on social media platforms to increase visibility and drive traffic to your youtube channel encourage viewers to subscribe like  call to action right so ask them to you know like comment subscribe every time that's possible but in a creative way you can't just ask them just blatantly because people are not so interested in it repurpose your long-form videos and share them across other platforms in facebook instagram twitter linkedin freddit and aim to post like three to four times a week across these platforms and  Your long form video can be like 5-6 Reels. Like if you have a 8 minute video, you can take those snippets and insert to other AI tools like Opus.clip or something and other AI tools and then use them to post it on Instagram Reels and YouTube Shorts. Aim to post at least 3-4 times in all other platforms guys.  Participate in online communities like Quora, Reddit and sub-niche specific forums, answer relevant questions and certainly promote your YouTube videos wherever it's appropriate. Engage in these communities like 4-5 times a week. Partner with other YouTube or social media influencers in the same niche once you start growing for the collaborative video or shoutouts that can help you reach a larger audience.  and start a blog where you can delve deeper into these topics and those topics can again be expanded by ChargeBT.  Organically, you'll get some traffic towards your blog because it's so big and you already have like 50% of your content ready and you'll insert the YouTube video inside your blog. Thereby, organic traffic will increase views for your YouTube thing also because you are embedding the YouTube video inside your blog post. And that's all for this video.  And it's still not the end guys. I'll just try and show you a guide. So this is a YouTube guide I created myself. Not my team. Myself. I sat couple of months doing nothing apart from just this. Right. 2 months I used to spend like 4-6 hours per day on just searching on YouTube and implementing stuff. Like I used to have couple of channels before this. So  I spent 2 months of my personal time, 4-6 hours on this and 2-3 hours on my agency and I spent again 2 months on this, 6 hours a day.  watched hundreds of YouTube videos, read hundreds of blog posts, took 3000 worth of premium courses just to write down these entire notes. I wrote it with my hand and now I just digitalized it  by sharing you everything that's possible. So basically we have basic steps to follow and then we have YouTube niche ideas. We have almost 15 new niche ideas and we have tools for YouTube success. Like you don't need anything apart from these tools for YouTube success as of now.  Combination of this plus our 300 AI tools is something that will be like your goldmine. These are all the tools for different purposes.  we almost have 70 tools in here guys apart from the 70 you already have 320 tools approximately on that ai tools arsenal so totally you have 400 tools at your disposal approximately and it's on you whether you want to use it or not like it's just the gold man i can't even  say you how valuable this content could be. And then we have tips. This is the actual meat. I categorize into different categories. YouTube, general YouTube script, monetization script, thumbnails, you know, script, titles, tips, you know, audience retention tips, video editing tips, video ideas tips, mistakes to avoid and stuff like that. Almost 200 plus points, I guess if I'm not wrong, 100 to 200 points easily.  You don't need anything apart from this one thing. I'm giving you the handwritten notes personalized  personally written by me what else you need you don't need to watch any youtube video whatsoever apart from the previous week this video and consuming content in this guide so that's my gift for you i didn't announce this while you're buying the course i just thought how about giving all my secrets away for you guys as a document  You know how much important is this for me guys? This is like all my secrets. I'm making few thousand dollars already from different YouTube channels. So I'm just giving away all my secrets. As simple as that. So maybe when you have any doubts, come to Inner Circle Calls, ask specific doubts in this and we can talk about that. That's it for this video folks. See you in the next video. Bye bye.

