Capstone Projects



Project 1

 Hi everyone, this is Animesh Mahato and today I'm going to discuss the Capstone Project 1. How you're going to create it, how should you go about creating it, and how will you submit it. Everything from top to bottom. So, this project requires crafting a megaprompt using prompting framework.  Prompting Framework is something that you might be familiar with if you have watched the AI Blueprint course. Don't worry, I'm going to show that which videos you should watch to get familiar with that part also. But Megaprompt is something almost every one of you should have heard once in a while because during the Masterclass or during the Freedom with AI Blueprint, Avinash mentioned this thing a lot of times that Megaprompt.  This is nothing but a huge chatjpt prompt with all kinds of instructions embedded into it. For example, if a normal prompt will be something like, write a science fiction story about Mars in 300 words. This is something which is very important.  different results. But whereas Megaproblem is something like, this is my writing style, this is what you should do, this is what you shouldn't do, all that kind of instruction and then at the end you paste your variable, let's say it's about a fictional story about Mars, something different.  But what will happen in this case is the results that you will get will be much much more consistent. So you can just spend time, create this prompt once and every day just use it to generate a script in literally two minutes. So that's the power of a mega prompt.  What is the objective of this caption project? Develop a comprehensive mega prompt that effectively incorporates various elements of advanced prompting frameworks. So you just have to create a mega prompt, any use case works, just it needs to follow some prompting framework.  Then, what is the task? You have to select a topic. I gave you a topic of YouTube scripts, for example. You can create another topic and design a megaprompt that includes components from the prompting framework. Use that detailed prompt to talk with ChatGPT to get a complex and thorough answer that is in and out about the topic you choose.  So what do we mean by complex? That is you can create complex tasks like creating a book and other very, very like detailed tasks, which you can very difficult to get consistent result because you know, chat GPT has a limited bandwidth when it for the output.  it can give you let's say output of 1000 words but a book is usually 10,000 plus words right but let's say you ask chatgpt to create a book it will create 1000 output then you will ask it to write the chapter 2 but the chapter 2 will be completely different feel and vibe than chapter 1 so it won't feel like it's part of the same book whereas if you use the chatgpt like mega prompt then every time you ask for a new chapter it will generate something  which will be relatable to the others. The last task is you need to analyze the effectiveness of your mega prompt in terms of the depth and breadth of chatgpt response. So the way you assess your mega prompt is the way chatgpt is responding to it. So create a new instance and try out the same prompt  see how's the result, if there is some issue, then fix it because we want to reset the context many times also so that we know that every time I use it, it works. Not necessarily in just this one chat window, but in every single chat GPT instance that I'm going to open with a little bit of context, this prompt should work. That's why it's called a mega prompt.  So at the end, what you need to deliver or what you need to submit to us is a report detailing the MegaPrompt, ChatGPT's response, and an analysis of the prompt's effectiveness in eliciting and comprehensive answer. What you can do is you can create sections. First section, you can show the prompt directly. And after that, you can show four to five responses that you got from the prompt.  At the end, you can write a conclusion of what you think is the effectiveness of this prompt and how you think can improve or what changes we should make or something like that. Anything that you feel, the conclusion, you can mention that. Basically, just make it a detailed report that you can look forward in the future and say, OK, understand everything by reading it once.  So that's it for this deliverables things. And we recommend you to use a Google Doc with a view to all access. So it basically means if you share the button, if you click on the share button, you will get a link which will be private. You need to just make it to public so that everyone can see it, no one can edit it, so that we can see the output that you make. And below this video only, you will find a Google Form link or Google Form.  where you can directly upload that link as your submission. Now that you know what you have to do for the project, I'm going to just show you the resources that you can use to create this project. If you see the Freedom With AI Blueprint, this prompt engineering module, the part two, is really important for this kind of project. What you can do is, you can watch this one,  I think till the end, Prompting Techniques Walkthrough. This will give you a very good amount of understanding about the prompting frameworks that we have and how different kinds of prompting frameworks work. For example, Zero-Shot Prompting, Few-Shot Prompting, Chain of Prompting, a lot of them are there. And whatever you think is the best suited for your use case, just use that for your mega prompt.  And once you're done, you can always submit it in the form below. So I think that was helpful and hopefully you will enjoy this project. I'm looking forward to seeing your results. Me and the team will sit down together to review all of them. And at the end of the day, I just want to end it with,  You don't have to make the perfect mega prompt in the world. It just needs to be a mega prompt. That's it. You can create whatever you like. And even if you think it's not perfect, that's fine. You can submit that. No problem. So best of luck for your Capstone Project 1 and have a great day. 

Project 2

 Hi Airfreedom Actors, this is Animesh and today I've come with another project for you. In the Caption Project 2, you're going to learn to create something really really important in today's day and age. Every business or profession, even people in the personal life, use a lot of  websites right and in this one we will ask you to create a website just by using AI so before we get into it just stop this video and comment yes if you have ever needed or wanted to create a website of your own because in this project we are going to do exactly that and that too within a week that's it  So, in this Capstone project, we are going to be creating a website landing page with AI assistance. So, in here, you don't have to create a full-fledged functioning website like Facebook or anything. You just have to create a landing page, maybe a few contactors and other pages, but a landing page with just using AI assistance.  What is the objective of this? You need to utilize chat GPT to compose a compelling landing page copy. So basically, landing page copy means the text that you see on a landing page. So even if you see any website, let's say Freedom With AI website or any Facebook, Google, Meta, any website, if you see, there is some text over it. That text is written by someone. The person who writes the text is called a copywriter. You need to become basically  AI-powered copywriter and write the copy for the website first using ChatGPT. Then for a product or service, basically you have to do it. You can use any product or service, even your own product, you can use it for like the reference of creating the copy.  Then you have to build a sample website using platforms like 10Web.io. There are other platforms also like Durable. You can use any platform which uses AI to build websites. And the best part about 10Web is it provides a free trial also if you are using it for the first time.  Now, what are the tasks? You need to select a product or a service for which you will create a landing page. Product or service can be anything. You can have a digital marketing service. You can have, let's say, skincare brand product, anything. You can even sell water if you want to.  Now, to use ChatGPT, as I already said, you need to create the landing page copy. You need to focus on several things like key elements, headlines, product, service, description, and call to action. You can just add this in ChatGPT and ask it to explain you. If you don't already know this term, these are basically marketing or copywriting terms which people usually use. Call to action is basically asking user to do some action, let's say, buy now. These are called call to action.  Then, you have to build a sample website on platform.tenweb.io. Incorporate the AI-generated landing page copy. The landing page copy that we generated before, you need to incorporate that into this website builder. I think TenWeb also writes copy for you, so if the copy written by TenWeb is good enough, you can keep it because that too is generated by chatgpd only in the backend. But if you think some part needs improvement, you can use AI to reiterate those parts as well.  Now, you need to document the entire process. So, the best way would be recording a screen and making a time-lapse of it. But if that's not possible, it's completely fine. You can just document in a text document also. Like, I did this, I did that in a Google Doc. And you can document in there, paste all the prompts that you use. The prompt you use in ChatGPT, the one you use in 10Web. All of the prompts you can paste in a Google Doc.  So in this, whatever chat you responded, everything. So after that you have done it, then you need to deliver, what do I have to deliver? Sample website featuring the AI-generated landing page, along with a documentation of the process, prompts and output.  So what we'll do is, we'll have a Google form in the description of this video only. There, you'll upload that Google doc that you created with project, all the steps that you followed and all. At the end of it, you have to add your landing page link. So just write landing page and then paste the link there. So that's how you will create the deliverable. At the end, we have a small ending note that it's not necessary to only use the tool mentioned in the project.  don't need to use durable. It is free. You can use anything, any tool that allows using AI to create websites. So as long as it's relevant, it's fine with us. And at the end of the day, the project does not need to be perfect. The landing page does not need to be Freedom with AI landing page level or Google meta level. So it just needs to be there, a landing page, that's it. As long as you created something, submit it, and we'll definitely look into it.  So on that note, I think you will enjoy this project a lot because a lot of people are excited in creating websites in general, but they don't know coding. That's why that's the something which was holding them back till now, but now there's nothing holding you back. So best of luck for this project and have a really good day. 

Project 3

 Hi everyone, this is Animesh back again with another Caption Project. Last week we learned how to create a mega prompt to do complex things using ChatGPT and provide proper context with it. This week we are going to apply that rule and create something which is useful in the real life as well. So this week we are creating an e-book using ChatGPT.  So you might ask, how are you going to do it? So these are basically the objective. First of all, utilize ChatJPT to author an ebook on a chosen topic, showcasing the ability to generate coherent and extended content.  So the idea behind giving you a project to generate a book instead of an essay or a small kind of a report is that we want you to learn how to create consistent results using ChatGPT. For example, if you want to write a script for a video which is like 300 words, it's far easier than creating a full 10  10 minutes  you are going here and there, you need to make proper transition. That's why we are giving you an assignment to write a book. So here are the tasks. So first one is you have to choose a subject you are passionate about. There is no requirement for a definite subject that you need to create a book on AI, this and that. Whatever you feel passionate about, just pick that and create a book. If you like reading books, just write how to read books properly. If you are more into motivation, write about that. If you are into cooking, write a recipe book.  If you are into fitness, you can write about fitness, nutrition and all that stuff. Whatever you think is the easiest for you to write, just write that because at the end, after ChatGPT has wrote the content, you need to verify it also by yourself that if the content is correct or not.  So first of all, the first step would be to develop an outline for the ebook. So as I told in the last video also that creating a long piece of content by one prompt is not possible. ChatGPT has a cap of let's say 1000-2000 words after which it cannot generate in one go. So the best case is you generate the outline first because let's say your book  is about five to ten chapters. You create the ten chapters, what should be in their ten chapters, a small pointwise kind of outline which will be like an index. Using that context, you can create the chapters one by one. So, after the second point is done, you can engage with chat GPT using prompts based on your outline to generate content for each chapter for the e-book.  So as I said, after you have the outline ready, one by one you can generate each chapter and that way you'll be able to create more consistent results. So at the end, compile and edit the generated content and ensure consistency, clarity and engagement. So after all that is done, you need to copy paste all that in a Google Doc. Maybe use Grammarly extension also, which will correct your grammar as well. It's a free Chrome extension.  So you can use that and fix here and there whatever place seems inconsistent. And after you have done a human check of the book, you can submit the project to us. So what is to be delivered in this project? A completed ebook authored with the assistance of ChatGPT. The prompt used to communicate with ChatGPT, we recommend using a Google Doc set to view to all.  So what you can do is, create a Google Doc, at the start, write the subject of the book or the title of the book, whatever you have decided. And then you can paste the conversation that you had with ChatGPT. That I gave this prompt, this was the output, this and that. All that, after that, at the end,  you can paste the text of your book. And if you have, let's say, the book in another Google Doc, you can just paste the link also. Both works, just make sure that the view to all access enabled so that we can review the project also. And at the end, it's not necessary to use ChatGPT. Right now, Gemini is launched, and Anthropic is there, and a lot of AI chatbot are there, right? So you can use anything that you think you're most comfortable with, that gives you the most best result.  At the end, what we want is to use any sort of AI as long as it's relevant to the project. And at the end, as always, it doesn't need to be perfect. It needs to be just submitted, just a complete book that the best you can create. Don't stress too much in perfection. Just submit it as if you think it's good to go.  So, that's it for this caption project. If you have any doubts, you can drop the questions in the comments. Plus, in here only, we'll have a form with all the details of the project you can refer to. And once you're done, after a week, you can submit the project in the form below. So, till then, have a really good day and best of luck. 

Project 4
 

Hi everyone, this is Animesh and I'm back again with another Capstone project. This week we have a specialized project for business owners and marketers. Even though this is optional, I would recommend every single person watching this video to do this project at least because it's a very easy one. And this is something if you are going to be an entrepreneur or planning to be one or something like that in the future, then this will come in handy a lot because this is the future.  So in this project, we want to create a video sales letter VSL script using chat GPT. So what is a video sales letter is if you may ask like  Previously what used to happen is, let's say you pitch your company to someone, you send an email to them or a proper letter to them that this is what our product does, this is what is best for this and that, but it's very easy to reject that thing because why would I like spend 20 minutes on something which you like maybe spend 20 seconds  sent it to me, right? It is very low effort. So right now that everything is going to a video, like your attention span is decreasing, people are watching reels instead of watching long form videos. Why would someone sit down and read your email? So what business people right now do is, is create a video sales center. So for example, I run a company which helps you send like emails to your customers at a very cheap rate. So let's say right now the email rate of other competitors  $1 per email minus one cent per email. So I'm going to sit there like this. I'm going to explain about my product, maybe give a demo also in that script, in that video sales letter only. And that way, if I send that to someone, someone doesn't have to use their head and sit down and like see what my product does, this and that.  They can sit down and relax and see my video sales letter. If they feel this product is good, they can directly contact me and purchase the product. If not, they can move forward. But the conversion rate of VSLs are very higher in comparison to text-based sales letters or anything other than that like call or something because in a video, you can create it one time and send it to a lot of people.  So, what is the objective of this project? Utilizing ChatGPT to create a compelling video sales letter, VSL, script for a product or a service. This product and service can be anything that you like. You can do any kind of product. It can be software. It can be any kind of hardware also. It can be any daily use product like a hand wash or something also.  So these are the tasks. Number one, choose a product or service for which you want to create a VSL. Okay, so you can create a VSL about your mobile phone also, you can mouse also, anything that you use in your daily life and you feel that you can talk about it for some time or write a script about it.  So, second step is use ChatGPT to brainstorm and write key elements of the VSL script, including the introduction, problem statement, solution presentation, benefits, testimonials, and call to action.  So all the terms that I read right now are parts, very integral parts of a video sales letter. So I'm just gonna walk you through very quickly with them. If you want more detail, you can just paste that word in chat GPT and ask it to explain. So introduction, we already know what is an introduction. Problem statement is something, as I explained in the email use case, that the problem statement was, you're spending too much on your emails. I can do it for cheaper.  Number two, solution presentation is that, what I just said, I can do it for cheap. And benefits, what is the benefit working for using my tool? That is it more user-friendly, it is cheaper, this and that, all kinds of benefits. Testimonials are like reviews that you have received from the old customers. And at the end, call to action, like book a call with me or buy the software, this and that. Whatever is your call to action, you can add it at the end of the video.  Then develop a full VSL script by integrating and refining the content generated by ChatGPT. So after ChatGPT has generated the content, you have to go over it and add your parts of it. For example, you think this line can be better, this and that. Some human parts added here and there to make the script more refined.  At the end, highlight how ChatGPT contributed to the script's development, focusing on creativity, persuasive element, and effectiveness. So, at the end, you have to create a report that how ChatGPT helped you create the VSL. So, how creative was it, how much persuasive it was, and how effective it was compared to what you might have written on your own.  So, what you need to deliver at the end is the final VSL script along with a report detailing the process of how chat GPT was used and effectiveness of AI and enhancing script. So, you don't have to create multiple docs if you don't want. You can create one single Google Doc. At the top, you can paste in the report.  I use this prompt, this is what chatGPT came back. This and that, all that conversation that you had with chatGPT. At the end, you can write down, here's the VSL script. And after that, you can paste the text or you can add the link if that VSL script is on other document. And make sure to give the access of view to all so that we can see the content of the document.  So at the end, as always, it's not necessary to use ChatGPT. You can use any competitor, Gemini, BART, whatever you want. As long as it's relevant to the project, it's fine with us. And at the end, it doesn't need to be perfect. It doesn't need to be a 10-year marketing guy experience kind of a video sales letter. Whatever best you can create, just create that and send it over to us. We'll personally read and give you feedback on what we like, what we didn't like about your VSLs.  So best of luck for this project and have a really good day. 

Project 5

 Hi everyone, welcome back and today we are going to discuss the capstone project 5. So I think this is the third week we are doing these capstone projects. So in this week, the general project is generating an ultra realistic image with AI tools.  So the objective basically is use an AI tool to make a picture that looks so real, people might think it's an actual photo. So you might have seen multiple times that the images generated with AI look more real than real life itself. So basically you need to create something  that only and for that I can give you a few hints. So you can go to prompt hero or you can also open our text to image course and in there you can explore what are the keywords that we use. So it's independent to the platform you can use mid journey, you can use stable diffusion, you can even use chat gpt now if you have chat gpt 4 and generate the images. The main keywords would be realistic, ultra, hd, 4k something like this.  So the tasks are, pick something to make a picture of, like a busy street or someone's face. Use an AI that can make pictures to create an image, like stable diffusion, mid-journey, and chat GPT DALI4. And then try to make the picture look as real as possible by changing different settings. And the key here is, you need to engineer the prompt. Like the first image you get,  might look realistic to you, but that's not really where the ceiling is. So just keep on refining your prompts and after a couple of outputs, you'll get something which is very, very realistic. Then look at the final picture and think about how real it looks and how hard it is to tell it's made by AI.  And if you want, you can show it to your friends, maybe some people in the Freedom with AI group also. Just make sure to add your name as a watermark or something so that when you submit it, there are no duplicate entries. And what you basically have to deliver at the end is super realistic AI image, website used, and your prompt. We recommend Google Doc.  set to view to all so what you can do is you can either upload that image in google drive and paste that link into google doc and then below that you can add tool used or website used as mid journey stable diffusion like that and then the prompt maybe like ultra realistic photo of a street in japan night something like that whatever prompt you're using just paste that exact prompt  So, at the end, it's not necessary to use only the tools mentioned, the 3-4 tools that I mentioned. It's not important. You can even use Crayon, you can use anything that you want. And as long as it's an image generation platform, it's fine. It just needs to look realistic.  And at the end, the project does not need to be perfect. We believe participation is more important than perfection. So hopefully you're excited for this week as it's very easy and very interesting also to create this project. So I'll be really, really happy if you just submit it as soon as possible. Me and everyone in the team, we're gonna sit down and review all of this.  submissions and as you know we have rewards for the top performers as well. So best of luck for you for this project and have a really good day. 

Project 6

 Hi everyone, this is Animesh and I'm back again with another capstone project. So this is week three and this week's specialized project is creating ad creative using AI. So the objective of this project is utilizing chat GPT for ad copywriting and an AI image generation tool for media. Then combining both of the two things using a design tool like Canva to produce ad creative.  So let me just go over it very quickly for you. So first of all, you're going to pick the product or let me just open the task. So first of all, you're going to pick the product. Basically, we just call the idea generation step. Like come up with the product service for advertising. Then you're going to write the ad copy. Use chatgp to write an effective ad copy that highlights the features and the benefits of your product and service. So  You just have to use chat GPT, write an ad copy that is convincing enough for people to purchase it. And it needs to be a bit short so that it can fit in one image. Then we have the image creation step. So employ an AI image generation tool.  create a visual that complements your ad copy. So for example, you picked an ad copy for something like a water bottle. A water bottle that always keeps your water cool, something like that.  maybe the ad copy is something like keep your water always the same temperature something like this then with that you need to generate an image you can put that exact ad copy in chat gp and ask it that this is my image copy  I want to generate an image for this. Give me a prompt for that. Then, ChatGPT will give you the prompt. So, now you can play with that prompt. Maybe the prompt would be a black water bottle of 750 ml. Something like this you will get. You just have to refine that prompt and generate an image.  So for ad copywriting, you can use ChatGPT, you can use Cloud AI, you can use BARD, anything you want. Number two, for the image generation, you can use Stable Diffusion, you can use ChatGPT, Tally 4, if you have ChatGPT 4, and you can also use Mid Journey, anything you have, you can use that. At the end, you need to design the ad. So combining the ad copy and the AI-generated image using a design tool like Canva to create a cohesive and engaging advertisement.  So here, you can use a template if you want. Or if you want to create something on your own, you can create it by using Canva. There is also Photoshop's free alternative called Photopea, which is available on the internet. You can just search Photopea and it is almost exactly like Photoshop. And you can use that to create Photoshop quality images. Apart from that, you can use Figma or any kind of design software that you like.  At the end, you need to create a document where you will record your prompts, the process you followed, including how the AI tool contributed to each aspect of that ad.  At the end, what you have to deliver is a final advertisement along with a report documenting the prompts, processes, and output of the ad. So, what you'll do is upload that image file to Google Drive and paste that link into Google Doc. On the top, you can add advertisement hyphen, paste that link, and below that, you can add the prompt that you use, what is the process you followed, like process, step one, chat GPT, step two is mid-journey, step three is Canva.  like this you can talk about what steps you exactly followed at the end you can say this is the output so output actually you have already posted in top so it's fine so like that you have to just create a small document and paste that link in the form below when you are submitting the project and at the end as always it's not necessary to use the specified tools talked in this video  You can use any tools that you like. And second thing, you don't have to make the best advertisement out there. As long as you create something, just make sure to submit it. We really appreciate the participation more than any of any perfect results. So hopefully you're excited for this project and best of luck for this and have a really good day. 

Project 7

 Hi everyone. Welcome back. This is Animesh here back again with another capstone project. So let's see what we're going to do this week. So this week we have an assignment to create an AI assisted business idea, which you need to like ideate and also create a pitch deck for that. So if you see the objective of it is think of a new business idea and use AI like Dome AI, chat GPT, et cetera, to make a presentation about it.  So the task is basically think of a business idea. Maybe your business idea is creating a digital marketing agency. Maybe your business idea is creating some kind of product, anything, just come up with the idea. You can even use AI in this stage. And in the next stage, we recommend using AI to refine your idea, like marketing, market research, and all that stuff. Like who's going to use your product, who's going to buy your product,  what is like, is it a right product, like market fit or not, all that kind of stuff, market research, validation and all, you can get a glimpse of it by using AI tools like chat GPT.  Next, you have to make a presentation about it, like a slideshow. You can use AI tools like Gamma AI. And there are some more tools that I'm going to link down below. You can, you're free to choose any tool that you like. Just, you have to create a presentation about it, like a pitch deck that you're pitching that presentation. So you can either ask ChatGPT, what are the components of pitch deck, or I'm going to walk you through roughly.  Number one can be what is your idea? Number two can be what is the market size? Number three is what is your USP? USP means unique selling proposition like why someone would buy your product compared to someone which is already existing in the market.  Like that there are several points you can ask chat GPT to explain you each point so that you can create a slide about that. Focus on how the AI helped you make your idea better and how help you with creating presentation. For example, your idea was creating digital marketing agency, right?  But you weren't sure whom to target, what to target like that. But AI might have given you an example that real estate is a very underserved category in this matter. So maybe you can go out there and ask for the real estate people to do the digital marketing of their new projects and stuff. So that kind of be a good leap forward, which you might have to take a year or two to figure out, okay, which market segment should I actually target, which chat GPT just will give you a front.  So, like this, you have to mention a few points what exactly chatgpt helped you in that document that you have to share with us. So, basically what you have to give is the presentation about your business idea and a write-up about how the AI helped you including prompts. We recommend using a Google Doc set to view to all.  So what I'm going to do is create a Google doc and there first add the presentation, the presentation dash, the presentation link. After that, we can add step-by-step instruction. Like I performed this step, AI helped me like this, I performed this step, AI helped me like this, that kind of like a breakdown so that we can understand how you leveraged AI to create this project.  At the end, it's not necessary to use specific tools that we mentioned in this video or in the description below. It's on you, what tool you want to use. As long as the output is what we are looking for, it's fine. When at the end, it does not need to be perfect. It does not need to be a life changing business idea.  You just have to create something and submit it to us. It doesn't need to be perfect. We need like your participation more than anything. So hopefully you will enjoy this project and best of luck for this work. 

Project 8

 Hi everyone, this is Animesh. We are back again with another capstone project for this week. So this week, for the specialized project, we are gonna do something for the developers.  So the caption project is streamlining daily workflow with ChatGPT. So as a developer, you would have specific tasks that you want to do, which would be repetitive, right? We want you to use ChatGPT, leverage ChatGPT and AI to automate those things. More clearly, if you see the objective is identify a routine task or challenge in your daily workload to a software development or debugging or data analysis or utilize ChatGPT, streamline or solve this task.  So let's say you are a data analyst or you want to debug some code or something like that. You do specific things before doing anything. For example, if you want to do data analysis, you do this specific pivot table, this and that to create some kind of database or think about it, how I can analyze this data. For example, you have a sales data of a year of a software company or a  let's say a shoe company, you want to analyze it, but you need to think, okay, do I need to analyze it based on which state is buying the most product, which time, like which month of the year is getting the most sales on all that stuff. And then create specific things about that. Instead of that, you can just upload the fund chat GPT, ask it for this question, or even you can ask it,  Here is the file, see this and give me 10 very specific reports that you think will be helpful for my business or something like that to perform the analysis. This is just one example, even in debugging of the code, you can just ask chat GPT to see if there is any debugging required on this code or not.  because before going to the advanced running that you go through and check very specific problems based on context you can just run it through chat gpt it will tell you at least that semicolon or that comma or that quotation mark which is missing here and there  So apart from that, there are a hundred different tasks that you need to do every day, which are kind of repetitive and not so productive. You just have to automate those things using chat. So the goal is to enhance productivity and solve complex problems more efficiently with assistance of AI. At the end, the tasks are like this. Deflect on your daily work task, identify specific use case where AI could assist such a code's optimization, debugging, writing test cases, data manipulation, or automating the repetitive task.  For example, you get a PDF sheet from your client every morning and you need to clear that out to create a CSV file in Excel or Excel file to do the metamanipulation. And just upload that PDF file or a photo of that. If it's a hard copy, charge a bit and ask it to create a CSV format.  and just like that your like 30-40 minutes are saved. So like this you have to first identify the problem that okay this is my daily workflow out of which 10-20% things is something that I do every day but not necessarily need to have like use this much brain power.  Then you have to clearly define the problem and outline specific requirements, constraints related to the task. For example, programming language, frameworks, and format. For example, the CSV file example, let's say you're uploading that PDF or an image file to ChatGPT and asking it to generate a spreadsheet out of it. Maybe you need it only in CSV format, so just specify, okay, I need a CSV file, and then ChatGPT will return you that.  then you have to formulate a detailed prompt to chat gpt concisely describing the problem including any relevant code snippet error management messages or data samples so for example let's say you're giving the file to chat gpt it requires like you to change some roman numerals to  like the normal words instead of O, I, I, you need to write two there. So you need to concisely tell chat GPT that the sheet or the PDF I'm providing you is using Roman numerals. I don't want you to use Roman numericals, make it like a normal numbering format.  At the end, you have to interact with ChargeAPT, providing additional context and clarification needed to work towards solution improvement and identify tasks. For example, if you have ever tried using ChargeAPT, there is a very good chance on the first go, it won't get that thing right.  So, you need to refine it by giving more and more context and based on what you need to provide later on, add that to your original prompt and keep adding it so that you have a mega prompt that anytime you need, without any additional context, you can just paste that prompt, give that task and chat developer will do it right away.  Next, you need to document the entire process, including the original problem statement, the problem given to ChatGPT, the dialogue that ensured the solution and the suggestions provided by ChatGPT, and any additional resources or tools used to implement the solution. So all that process that you have done, you just have to document that in a Google Doc and set it to view to all apps and add that to the assignment-like form below.  And the deliverable is a detailed case study that includes the problem statement, the AI-assisted solution process, and the outcome. The report should highlight how ChargeGPT contributed to solving the problem or improving the workflow, including any code snippets, commands, strategies, such as ChargeGPT and their impact on the task. So everything, basically, you have to document that in a document and share that with us.  At the end, as always, it's not necessary to use chargepd. You can use any tool you want, any like can even use Gemini if you want to right now, but it doesn't matter what AI software you use. At the end, you just have to come up with a result.  And second thing being, it does not need to be the perfect, like a report. You can like use it to automate the smallest task in your bucket or even the largest one. It doesn't matter. It doesn't have to be perfect.  do whatever is achievable at your point of view and just submit the assignment by the end of the week. So hopefully you'll enjoy doing this assignment and best of luck for this one. I'm really excited to see all of the submission by the end of the week. Best of luck. 

Project 9

 Hi everyone, how you guys are doing? This is Animesh back again with Capstone Project 9 this week. So let's see what we're gonna do for this week. Integrating AI tools into workplace tasks.  So you might be working at a job, or you might be running your own business, or maybe you are looking to work somewhere as a specific job title. It can be data analyst, it can be video editor, it can be anything you want. We want you to simulate that into your head and create a TAO workflow, which will basically be enhanced using AI in boosting your productivity. Let me get into the details.  So, utilizing AI tools like ChatGPT to perform and enhance various tasks in a current job or a hypothetical work scenario, as I just said. So, these are the breakdown of tasks. Number one, identify what specific task or project you're currently working on or create a hypothetical work scenario. So, for example, let's say I want to work as a video editor somewhere, okay.  As a video editor, primarily one of my key aspects of the job would be to enhance the audio that has been recorded with the visuals as well. So let's say I am someone using Adobe Audition or Audacity to enhance audio. I am doing every single intricate detail, this and that, like removing background noises, enhancing what the user is speaking.  That is taking me a lot of time. So I can think, okay, how can I automate that? I'll research about that on the internet, and I will find there is a tool called Adobe Audition. It's completely free, you don't have to pay anything. Just export your audio file, upload it here, and it will spit out the audio file with completely auto-editing done. So it will remove the noise, like highs and lows also, it will balance them out and create a very podcast-like, high-quality audio for you.  just for free and less than 10 minutes. Based on your audio size, it can vary, but usually it takes less than 10 minutes only. Then, as I said, you need to choose the appropriate AI tool. In this example, it was Adobe Audition. Then use the AI tool to assist executing the task. Then document the whole process, including AI tools used, prompts given, how AI tools integrate in your task. So this AI tool that I just talked about at Audition,  does not require any prompt but it's just an example maybe you're using chat gpt for data analysis then you're putting in some prompts so in those cases you can also add the prompts in the document then evaluate how AI tool impacted the efficiency and quality of your outcome so for example with your traditional audio editing you are getting the same result in one hour of work  But after doing this Adobe thing, you have saved 90% of your time and you only need to spend that 10-15% of your time fine tuning the audio. Rest all, removing background noise and all, Adobe has already done. Then, what are the deliverables? What do you need to submit? A report detailing the task, the AI tools used, and the process of integrating AI into the task. And an evaluation of how AI impacted the work.  So at the end, as I always say, you don't need to use the tools that are mentioned here in the video. It can be any tool, plus this is a very diverse project. You can use it literally anywhere. And second thing being, it does not need to be game changing, or it does not need to be completely revolutionary that no one has ever thought about it. Even if it's saving some amount of time, it's better than no amount saved. So whatever you come up with, please submit your project. We'll be really happy to have a look at it.  So yeah, that's it for this week's video, this week's project. So best of luck and have a really good day. 

Project 10

 Hi everyone, welcome back. This is Animesh. I'm back again with another caption project. So this week's expertise based project have me really excited because it's something from my domain. So let's have a look at it. AI enhanced UI UX design project. So you need to create a UI UX design using AI. So let's see what are exactly the tasks that you have to perform.  First, let's see objective. Utilizing AI tool with focus on Figma, design and refine a UI UX project, showcasing innovative design solution. So what does this basically mean is, you need to take AI tools, which are integrating in Figma, or Figma is just an example by the way, you can use UiZard or anything. Figma has the most plugins, so we have mentioned that in the project, but you can use AI anything.  So second thing being, you need to pick up existing project or create a whole new project and innovate its design with using AI. You can use mid journey, you can use anything else to get ideation or get the copy from Coco AI. A lot of tools are there, which I already explained in my UI UX course. I'll just link that down in the description so that you can watch it. So based on that, you just need to enhance your existing project or create a whole new project.  So task will be choose a theme or specific problem for a UI UX project. So it can be a mobile app, it can be a desktop website, it can be anything. And that is the interface. And second thing mean a problem can be anything, a health care solution, or like a food ordering app, or like a Uber clone, anything like that you can create.  Next, use AI tools like ChatGPT for initial idea inspiration and relevant to your theme. So that ideas what you're going to create like a food delivery app, Uber clone or anything like that. You can get the ideas from AI to get some new innovative ideas. You can give some context like I'm looking to develop projects for the future or something like that. So whatever is going to be relevant, just give me ideas related to that.  Next, create the initial design in Figma, incorporate AI suggesting the features of the design element. So what you'll do is create a rough layout in Figma, and based on that, you will incorporate AI to enhance every single aspect of it. Let's say you have a splash screen design, you're putting the logo there. So maybe create the logo using AI, create the background using AI, and then animate it on your own, something like that.  So, you can continuously refine the design using AI tools and further feedback on usability, aesthetic and user experience. So, there are AI tools which can generate heatmaps and usability and all that stuff. So, you need to use those tools here to see how usable or user-friendly your design is. That's basically the UX part of it.  document the whole design process, highlight how the AI tools influence your design, precision, and iteration. So, just create a doc, add your prototype link at the top, that this is the prototype link, or if you have created some slides of it, you can just upload them on Google Drive and share a link there. After that, you can explain, these are the AI tools I used. First, give the problem statement, problem statement, and then the  The initial design, this is how it looked. Then I used AI tools to create this. This is what I got, and then I enhanced it again with AI. Whatever workflow you followed, just document that throughout the way, and then just submit it to us, and we'll definitely love to have a look at it, how you solved that problem with using AI.  And at the end, what we deliver is a comprehensive UI UX design project created in Figma. And yeah, Figma is again an example. It can be UiZard. It can be any prototyping software or anything. Figma is just an example, accompanied by a detailed report on how the design process AI tools utilization.  and how AI contributed to finding the design outcome. So at the end, you're going to submit a doc with a view to all access. On the top, you'll paste the link of your prototype or the drive link of the image files of your slides.  and then the rest of the doc should be the documentation about the process you followed. And as always, it's not necessary to use the tools that I mentioned in the video or is in the copy of the project in the description. You can use any AI tools that you want, you can use any prototyping tools that you want, as long as it's using some sort of AI.  it is good with us and next thing being it does not need to be like a perfect Google or Amazon level like a UIX project it can be anything simple also just submit it whatever you come up with on your own and yeah as always we value your participation more than anything else so best of luck and have a really good day 

Project 11

 Hi everyone, welcome back to a brand new Capstron project for this week. So, now this week we are at the Capstron project 11. Let's have a look at what do we have. So, in this project we have to build a digital product using AI tools. Not exclusively AI tools, you can use some non-AI tools as well.  But, the more you use AI tools, the better you will understand how to use AI tools to build actual digital products. So, what is the objective? Utilize various AI tools to create a digital product and document the entire process, accumulating in a document. So, let's say you want to create a digital product, let's say an e-book for weight loss.  So, I'll just give an example of how you can use AI in every step. First, in the idea itself, you can use AI, like ask AI what kind of product is trending right now, what should I create? This is what I have expertise in, for example, like this. Let's say you have expertise in exercise, nutrition, and weight loss. So, you just explain that to ChatGPT, let's say it gave you. Create a weight loss book for, let's say, people in the age of 40, 50, or that kind of age group.  Then, the second step can be creating the copy for the book. So, you can just ask ChatGPT to give you a copy by first asking you for chapters and then asking you to explain every chapter of it and then you can create that as a copy. You already know how to do it. We already have a few ChatGPT book writing projects by this point. So, you are pretty comfortable with that step itself.  Now, the main part is making the book interesting for the person to actually use. So, for that, you can use two tools. First is Canva, which is not necessarily a 100% AI tool, but that's fine. You can use some non-AI tools as well. So, in Canva, you can create the whole book structure like page one, page two, like this. And in some pages, I would recommend generate images from Midjourney, Dali, or any other image generating platform and put in those images there so that the viewer feels like, okay,  This book is actually really nice. I enjoy reading it because people don't really have that much patience right now to read entirely paragraph to paragraph throughout the book. So if adding some visual increase retention then I would really recommend you do that. So after that you have the visuals ready and just put in the visual then text and like that you can format all the things.  export it all together and create the book cover. So, I already have a video on that. I'll probably just pin it or just paste the link below for how to create an Amazon KDP compliant book cover. So, you can use that to create a book cover also and at the end when you have everything you can just publish it on Amazon, Gumroad or any other website as you please. So, based on that whatever you feel like you have expertise in, you can create a digital product in that niche.  book is just one like example or use case you can do it in any kind of use case possible. So whatever steps I explained are already documented here. This you will also find in the description of the video so you can just read through them if you want to revise.  And at the end, what you have to deliver as, as always this create a document at the first at the product link or whatever your like end result is at the link of that thing. And below that document, the whole process and make sure that it is view to all access so that we can even review your, uh, like these things without any issues.  So at the end, as always, you don't have to make it the best and perfect. They still brought it out there, just create something. And we would really love to see what you come up with. And the, another point being, you don't necessarily you to use. And the AI tool that I just mentioned, chat, GPT, mid journey and all that, you can use anything and that you want.  So that's it for this project. I'm wishing you really, really best of luck for this one because this is really interesting. It's something actually that can make you money because you already know many steps of the way throughout the captioning project that you have done so far. So if you do this, this will test your overall knowledge throughout the game, how you can do it from start to finish. So best of luck and have a really good day. 

Project 12

 Hi everyone, this is Animesh. I'm back again with another capstone project for this week. And this week for the specific use case project, we have this one. Comprehensive business plan development using ChatGPT. So what this basically means is you need to utilize ChatGPT and the right prompting technique to create a full-fledged business plan. It can comprise everything from the initial idea to marketing strategy to implementation, all the things from start to finish.  Basically, you will be acting like a consultant, a business consultant who is giving advice on how you can start the business or expand or anything like how you will do marketing and all the stuff. You just are creating something on your own for your own business. So, what are the tasks? You need to brainstorm and select a unique business idea with chatgpd first of all.  Once you have a solid business idea in your head, then you have to engage in ChatGPT, in some strategic prompts and create a kind of a very comprehensive business plan, so that you have every crucial aspect of a business plan, which is marketing strategies, implementation steps, what is the initial setup, all that kind of stuff. At the end, you have to compile everything and create a comprehensive business plan in a document format.  After that you have to analyze how AI helped you create that business plan and write your own comment at the bottom. At the end you just have to deliver that document with your business plan and at the end how AI helped you come up with that business plan or how AI helped you refine that business plan that was in your head.  And as always, you don't have to just use ChatGPT or whatever tools we have in the title and description. You can use any sort of AI tools, free or paid, we don't mind as long as it's an AI tool. And second thing being, it does not have to be a life-changing business idea or like a very grand business idea. You can create the smallest to smallest or big to biggest kind of a business plan. And we just want to see what you come up with on your own.  So with that I give you this project and best of luck for this one. I hope to see some great results for this and till then have a really good day and take care. 

